2024-2025

CLUBS &
ORGANIZATIONS
GUIDE
Everything you need to know about running a club at

Table of Contents
Content

Page #

Introduction
Who Should Know About this Guide?
Application of Guide
Overview of Student Clubs & Organizations at CapTehU 
Benefits of Becoming a Recognized Student Club or Organization 
Student Clubs & Organizations Recognition Process 

Membership
Requirements 
Required Number of Members 
Responsibilities of Active Student Clubs & Organizations 
Mediation and Reporting of Concerning Behavior Among Clubs and Organizations ……………….


Expectations
Student Clubs and Organizations will Abide to the Following …………………………………………. 5

Funding
Starting Budget 
Fundraising 
Disbursements 

Events
Reservation and Use of Space 
Event Hosting 
Promoting and Advertising 
Food Options …
Event Approval 
Event Supervision 

Travel Policies
Approval and Cancelation 
Conduct During the Trip 
Within 50 Miles of Campus Day Trip 
Trip More than 50 Miles from Campus 
Overnight Trip Within 75 Miles of Campus 

Introduction
Who Should Know this Guide?
All members of student clubs & organizations are responsible for understanding and familiarizing
themselves with the contents in this guide.

Application of Guide
This guide's provisions are applicable to all student clubs and organizations at Capitol Technology
University, with the exemption of the Student Leadership Advisory Board (S-LAB). S-LAB is the
governing board that oversees all clubs and organizations and related campus activities. Therefore,
they are considered a separate entity and have their own bylaws, policies, and procedures by which
they operate.
Overview of Student Clubs & Organizations at CapTechU
Student Clubs & Organizations at CapTechU are groups whose membership is comprised of current
students that offer educational, service, recreational, social, or co-curricular opportunities to their
members. Alumni, faculty, administration, and staff along community members may engage and
participate with student clubs and organization during events through acknowledgment from the
Office of Student Life. All may participate in activities and perform responsibilities for the betterment
and brand of the organization and university. However, in order to hold any officer role within a
student club and organization one must be a current matriculating student and in good standing with
the university.

The university may hold student leaders and members of an organization accountable for the conduct
of the organization’s guests.
Every student is encouraged to enhance Capitol Technology University’s campus and their
own college experience by getting involved. Being a part of a student club or organization
allows you to experience CapTechU in another light besides the classroom. First, student
clubs & organizations add an important component to campus life at CapTechU by allowing
the student voice to be heard and seen on campus. Secondly, students gain valuable
experience in the practical aspects of leadership, communication, risk management, respect,
accountability, responsibility, and teamwork. Statistics have shown that students who are
involved in student clubs & organizations maintain a higher GPA and are self-aware with being
active on campus.

Consider the clubs & organizations that are already offered, and if you have an idea for an
organization, within this guide you will learn the process on how to start a club or organization.
No club or organization is considered officially recognized until it has completed the
registration process outlined in this guide. Failure to complete the recognition process may
result in loss of funds and/or recognition.

Revised 2024

Page |1

Introduction
Benefits of Becoming a Recognized Student Clubs or Organizations

Access to leadership development opportunities and resources for individual and
organizational development including access to leadership resources, such as books and
workshops.
The ability to reserve university facilities for meetings and events.
Access to post announcements on university bulletin boards and appropriate campus
structures.
Campus posting privileges include chalking and posting flyers in compliance with the
University Posting Policy.
Specialized training to develop a better understanding of organizational processes, and
university policies and procedures.
Authorization to request funds from the Student Leadership Advisory Board (S-LAB) in
accordance with established procedures and guidelines.
Access to volunteer opportunities, event planning resources, supplies for retreats and
presentations.
Assistance from the Director of Student Life and Residential Services in starting and
maintaining a student organization and consultations to help in organizational development.
A great addition to your resume to become a well-rounded candidate.

Student Clubs & Organizations Recognition Process:
Phase I
Step 1: Present your idea to other students on campus to get their feedback on an idea for a club or
organization.
Step 2: Establish that you and other want to establish a club or organization.
Step 3: Advisors must be a faculty or staff who will mentor, guide, and oversee your club or
organization.
Step 4: Meet with the Office of Student Life & SLAB president to pitch your club and/or organization
Step 5: Email SLAB at slab@captechu.edu requesting (petition of recognition, notification of
leadership, proposal template, & constitution template).
Step 6: Complete all necessary documents with all proper signatures
Step 7: Submit via email all official documentation to slab@captechu.edu within 5 days after
receiving your package.
Phase II
Once all perspective clubs & organization materials have been submitted to SLAB, it then is
presented to the Dean of Students and or a designee for reviewed approval and acknowledgement.

Revised 2024

Page |2

Membership
Requirements
•

The members of student clubs & organizations must be current undergraduate students
enrolled (part-time & full-time).
o At least three (3) members of the club or organization must hold an officer position
including but not limited to president, vice president, secretary-treasurer.
o An officer cannot be President and/or Vice-President of more than one(1) club or
organization but can hold other leadership positions such as (secretary, treasurer), and
media relations in up to 2 club/orgs and can be a member of multiple.
o Officers of a student clubs or organization must always meet the following grade point
average (GPA) and enrollment requirements.
o Undergraduate officers must be enrolled in at least six (6) credit hours and have a
minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5 as well as be in good standing with the university.
o All clubs & organizations have the right to raise or require a higher GPA for officers if
necessary.
o All current members of any club & organization should be in good standing
academically
o All clubs & organizations have the right to require a specific GPA for membership.

Required Number of Members:
o All registered student clubs & organizations must maintain a minimum of three (3)
members.
o A university department supporting an approved student club or organization may
propose an exception rule to this requirement for a decrease or increase of membership
requirement.
• To promote inclusivity amongst our student body, membership in student clubs & organizations
must be nondiscriminatory and open to the entire Capitol Technology University student body.
o An exception to this policy will be granted to honor societies and professional
organizations that may require specific educational requirements in order to be
members.
o For other clubs or organizations that believe selective membership is warranted, the
perspective club or organization must receive approval from the Director of Student Life
and Residential Services. Clubs & organizations will be required to demonstrate that
their selection process is essential to the success of the club organization, and is
openly advertised, fair and non-discriminatory.
• Student Life recognizes the benefits of co-curricular involvement by providing services and
resources that engage students in creating campus culture through social, cultural, intellectual,
spiritual, athletic, recreational, artistic, political, and service opportunities. It is important that
students ensure that academic classes are the first priority before organizing events or
meetings. Student Clubs & Organizations must make every effort to create a schedule that fits
the members’ academic schedules for mandatory events. If for any reason this is not possible,
the organization should schedule make-up time for that member(s).

Revised 2024

Page |3

Membership
Responsibilities of Active Student Clubs and Organizations
During the fourth week of classes the Director of Student Life or the coordinator of student
activities will review the student organizations and declare any clubs who do not comply with the
following requirements inactive.
1. To remain active a student club or organization must appoint a representative and report
changes to S-LAB.
2. To remain active a student club or organization must have at least three (3) meetings of the
membership for both Fall and Spring semester (1meeting per month).
3. To remain active a student club or organization must submit an activity report including funds
spent and active members roster once a month (Fall & Spring) to the Director of Student Life &
Residential Services and the Student Leadership Advisory Board (S-LAB)
4. To remain active a student club or organization must provide the Director of Student Life &
Residential Services and Student Leadership Advisory Board) S-LAB) with Notification of
Leadership of the organization by the fourth (4th) week of school.
5. To remain active a student club or organization must provide the Director of Student Life or the
coordinator of student activities with a set of current by-laws by the fourth (4th) week into the
semester.
6. To remain active a student club and organization must attend all scheduled student clubs &
organization meetings with the Director of Student Life & Residential Services and or S-LAB.
At least one or two members must attend those mandatory meetings to acknowledge clubs'
attendance.

Mediation and Reporting of Concerning Behavior Among Clubs & Organization
As a resource to student clubs & organizations, Student Life will provide staff for the
mediation of intra/inter-organizational conflict. The goal of any meeting will be to find an
alternative solution to identify the problem(s). The mediation will be considered confidential
unless information provided violates university policy. If for any reason the information does
violate the university’s policy the Director of Student Life & Residential Services, the Dean of
Students and/or designee will be notified for involvement.
It is the duty of each officer and their advisor(s) within their perspective club and
organization to report any concerning activity or incident to the university by ways of Student
Life.
To request mediation on any problem(s) within your perspective club or organization
please contact the S-LAB president at slab@captechu.edu to discuss the problem(s). If S-LAB
decides that administration will need to be involved the president will provide an email requesting
a meeting with Student Life for further mediation.

Revised 2024

Page |4

Expectations
At Capitol Technology University, student clubs and organizations are granted privileges and
resources. In exchange, it is essential to adhere to and fulfill the following expectations of being a
registered student club and organization. Students remain subject to all college policies while
traveling with a recognized club and organization on an approved trip. Violations of any college policy
are likely to be addressed using the college’s judicial process for individuals and group as well as
sanctions to the organization.

Student Clubs and Organizations will Abide to the Following:
•

Complete the annual registration process with the Office Student Life by submitting all required
documentation to the Office of Student Life, participating in the Student Clubs and
Organizations workshops, and making timely updates to organization’s information (officers,
constitution, etc.) as changes occur.

•

All student clubs & organizations are expected to host an interest meeting twice a year (each
semester) after the Clubs & Organization fair.

•

Follow and abide by all federal, state, and local laws and regulations, and all policies and
procedures of Capitol Technology University (Including the student code of conduct and
the Student Clubs & Organizations Guide).

•

Must remain in good standing with all Capitol Technology University campus departments and
conduct themselves in a manner that correlates with the brand and mission of the university.

•

Obey the rules and regulations expressed in the organization’s constitution, including the nondiscrimination and non-hazing requirements for membership.

•

Ensure proper planning and execution of organization events and consult with Office Student
Life for help with event policies and contract management.

•

Attend training during the officer transition process.

•

Must establish consistent communication with your club and organization’s advisor and SLAB
monthly. It is important to keep your advisor informed of ALL activities within your perspective
club and organization.

•

Ensure that proper use of all campus resources such as: meeting spaces (classrooms,
auditorium, labs, office spaces, lounges), and other campus areas granted to the usages to the
clubs & organizations are handled with care respect of the university. As well as Supplies
and materials, and other benefits granted to the organization.

Revised 2024

Page |5

Expectations
•

Unauthorized or malicious damage to the property of the university, other person(s), or entities
resulting from organizational activities is prohibited and the student club and organization shall
be held accountable for all damages.

•

Organizational activities that encourage or precipitate riots or other disturbances, which
materially interfere with the regular operation of the university, are prohibited.

•

Who can serve as an advisor: Any full-time Capitol Technology University faculty, staff, or
administrator. If at any time an advisor resigns, the student club and organization have one
month to find a new advisor while on provisional status. If the club and organization cannot find
an advisor, they may be placed on the inactive list until an advisor is identified.

•

If an event is hosted at an off-campus facility, SLAB will need to be notified at least one (1)
month in advance with the completed paperwork and advisement of the steps for off campus
traveling. This time frame will allow SLAB and Student Life to plan accordingly.

Revised 2024

Page |6

Funding
Starting Budget
Each student club or organization must have an active treasurer to manage their funds. Each
registered student club or organization is encouraged to keep track of their own funds being used. On
the last day of each month SLAB will provide a financial report to each club or organization regarding
their spending. Student Activity Fees (SAF) will be allotted based on membership within the club and
organization. (approximately $250/semester, $500/yearly)
New Clubs & Organizations do not receive any funding for their first year in operation,
however if needed the club or organization may request funds from S-LAB.
•
•
•
•

Each student clubs and organizations are eligible to apply for extra allocations from the
SAF through Student Leadership Advisory Board (S-LAB)
All student clubs and organizations receiving funds from the SAF must maintain these
funds in a university account, which can only be accessed by advisors and the Director.
A club & organization may not deposit other (non-SAF) funds in a university account.
Before using any personal money, please consult with the S-LAB president and treasurer
first before making any purchases. Any personal money used for your club and
organization may be refunded once S-LAB and the Office of Student Life review and sign
the necessary document.

Fundraising
All recognized student clubs and organizations may participate in on-campus fundraising activities
with the approval of administration: Director of Student Life, Dean of Students and S-LAB. All
fundraisers are required to be submitted for approval at least 4 weeks (1month) prior to the
event/fundraiser.

Disbursements
Student clubs & organizations may request funds for their event through SLAB and the Office
of Student Life. If a member of their perspective student club & organization purchase items related to
their event they are entitled for reimbursement. All receipts will need to be submitted along with the
proper paperwork. Student clubs & organization also have the option to request the items need and
the Office of Student Life and/or S-LAB will purchase them.

Revised 2024

Page |7

Events
Reservations and Use of Space
All events must be approved prior to the reservation of space.
• All reservations should be sent to registrar@captechu.edu
• The Student Center can be reserved by emailing studentlife@captechu.edu
• The library can be reserved by emailing ahexner@captechu.edu
• If you wish to hold your event outside, please contact studentlife@captechu.edu so they can
confirm the space is available.
• Any requests for tables and chairs must be sent to fhelp@captechu.edu at least two (2) week in
advance.
• If you wish to change the way the Student Center is arranged, please contact
studentlife@captechu.edu to set up a meeting.
Event Hosting
Any student club or organization planning to host an event, which meets any and all of the
following guidelines, must submit a completed Event Planning and Proposal form at least ten
(10) business days prior to the event. Events cannot be advertised until the Office of Student
Life has received all documentation and met with the members of the club or organization.
Once all the necessary steps have been completed, the Office of Student Life and SLAB will
issue either an approval or denial of your event.
•
•

Approval- advertising will be allowed
Denial- cease and decease all advertising

For coordination of activities and management of space is essential with the end goal being
that we strive to maintain not only safety but a successful event as well. This form ensures
everyone who needs to be informed of the event receives the proper information. For this
reason it is required that you have a staff supervisor if any of the following will take place:
o More than the usual club members will be in attendance.
o The event is open to and purposefully marketed to the general public (more than
three of the following items are used: Discord, Facebook, poster, text message,
website, formal invitation, organizational calendar, and information table)
o These events should be discussed with Student Life at least two months prior to the
proposed date.
o The event requires the student club or organization to contract with another entity.
o The event is outdoors and on-campus.
Amplified sound/noise policy
o Student clubs & organizations seeking events that involve amplified sound must
indicate this when completing the Event Proposal Form. The Office of Student Life
reserves the right to deny the use of amplified sound if excessive noise will disrupt
academic pursuits, the sleep environment in the residence halls, or the surrounding
neighborhoods. Music with vulgar or explicit language is prohibited.

Revised 2024

Page |8

Events
Promotions and Advertising
Student Clubs and Organizations must make sure that all materials used to advertise for meetings
or events are approved by the Student Life Office. These materials or advertising strategies
include:


Indoor signage at event site.
Outdoor banners/ sheet signs approval of sign from Student Life.
Bulletin board postings.
Discord.
Sidewalk Chalk.
Email Messages for the list-serve may be e-mailed to studentlife@captechu.edu
MyCapitol Postings.

Students or student clubs & organizations promoting or advertising membership or activities on behalf
of their organization should note the following:


References to alcoholic beverages, cocktails, keg, or other terms or illustrations descriptive of
alcohol or its consumption may not be present on any advertisements and may not be served
at club sponsored events.
CapTechU encourages student organizations to develop and promote inclusive programming
and events.
The University logos and branding graphics may not be used in promotions and advertising
materials without express written authorization by the CapTechU Marketing Office
All advertisements must be approved by the Director of Student Life and Residential Services
before they are posted. Failure to do so will result in the advertisement being discarded.
Chalking is allowed but only on the sidewalks (not under over-hangs or roofs).
Chalking is strictly prohibited on vertical surfaces such as building walls, steps, columns,
etc.
Any student or student organization utilizing sidewalk chalking for advertising is responsible
for removing any chalking of outdated materials that has not naturally washed away within 3
days after the event is over.
Food Options
• The owners of the Megabyte Café have the first right of refusal for all events on campus
that provide food.
o You must contact studentlife@captechu.edu for information regarding the request
process.
o If food cannot be provided by Megabyte, the club or organization must meet with
SLAB and Student Life to discuss food options
• Food for the event cannot be cooked by someone who is a student, staff, faculty or
administrator at Capitol Technology University.
• If getting food delivered, the University only allows tips of up to 15%.

Revised 2024

Page |9

Events
Event Approval
Events require advanced approval by the Office of Student Life when:


Food is being served.
Travel off campus is involved.
The event is expected to draw more than 25 attendees.
A contract committing the college to payment, or additional responsibilities is required.
There will be an open fire (candles, bon fire, grilling) or the use of a fog or smoke machine.
The request for approval is accomplished by completing the Event Proposal and Funding
Request Form.

Event Supervision
Typical meetings of student clubs & organizations do not require the attendance of university
administrator, staff or security.
•

However, an officer of the club & organization must be present at all times. That officer
must review the document: When to Call and Who to Call sheet to guide with
assistance when needed requiring an immediate response by administration, staff,
faculty, and security.

Events will require the supervision of a faculty or staff member when:


Revised 2024

There is travel more than 100 miles away from campus.
The event is overnight (extending between 2am and 7am), either on campus or off
campus
The event is expected to draw more than 25 attendees.
The event is deemed to be high risk by the Office of Student Life
The event is expected to draw non-student attendees.
There will be an open fire (candles, bon fire, grilling) or the use of a fog or smoke
machine.

Page |10

Travel Policies
Approval and Cancelation
Student clubs & organizations planning to travel off campus must complete a Travel Approval
Addendum, in addition to the Event Proposal and Funding Request Form.
All travel must be approved 4 weeks prior to the event/travel and a complete and detailed
travel itinerary with a list of all participants must be submitted 3 business days prior to the
event.
All participants will be required to sign a release of liability form prior to traveling which the club
or organization must provide to the Office of Student Life 2 business days before the trip.
If any or all of the requirements listed for travel are not satisfied Capitol reserves the right to
cancel the program. If an organization fails to satisfy the requirements and has previously
committed itself to the procurement of items or services, the organization remains liable for all
monetary commitments.
Conduct During Trip
Students remain subject to all college policies while traveling with a recognized organization on
an approved trip. Violations of college policy are likely to be addressed using the college’s
judicial process for individuals as well as sanctions to the club & organization.
Within 50 Miles of Campus Day Trip
Transportation: Student clubs & organizations traveling within 50 miles of campus have two
options for transportation: College van with a pre-approved driver or personal vehicles driven
by pre-approved drivers. All travel must be approved in advance. The students may be
reimbursed for the purchase of gas for the college van or the college rate for mileage when
using their personal vehicle.
1. College Van: Approval to drive the van is determined by the Director of Human
Resources. To be eligible to be an approved van driver you must be 21 years of age,
hold a valid Driver’s License. You must complete a training program, “Vans, Large
Passenger – Avoiding Rollover Accidents” and provide the certificate of completion to
the Director of Human Resources. The Director of Human Resources will notify both
the driver and the Office of Student Life of the date the drivers are approved to begin
driving the van. To complete the approval process, contact the Director of Human
Resources.
2. Personal Vehicle: Approval to drive a personal vehicle is determined by the Dean of
Students Student Life and Retention or her designee. To be eligible to be an approved
driver you must provide proof that you hold a valid driver’s license with no restrictions,
provide information regarding the degree of insurance covered. This information must
be updated annually to remain an authorized driver.

Revised 2024

Page |11

Travel Policies
Trip more than 50 Miles from Campus
All travel and arrangements must be approved 4 weeks prior to the planned departure.
Transportation arrangements must be made with a commercial carrier (charter bus, airline,
train, or other independent service). The student organization is responsible for securing a
full-time administrators, faculty or staff members to volunteer as a monitor or chaperone. The
faculty or staff member accompanying the group on the trip must meet with the Office of
Student Life 2 weeks prior to departure to review emergency protocols and expectations. The
administrator, faculty or staff will serve as the On-Site Event Coordinator.
As stated in the previous section contact information must be exchanged, students must
receive written information regarding a meeting time and location for each morning and
evening and the buddy system must be implemented.
Overnight Trip Within 75 Miles of Campus
All travel and arrangements must be approved 4 weeks prior to the planned departure.
Transportation arrangements can be made as indicated in the previous section. The student
clubs & organizations are responsible for securing a full-time faculty or staff member to
volunteer as a monitor or chaperone.
The administrator, faculty or staff member accompanying the group on the trip must meet with
the Office of Student Life 2 weeks prior to departure to review emergency protocols and
expectations.
This administrator, faculty or staff member will serve as the On-Site Event Coordinator. As
stated in the previous section contact information must be exchanged, students must receive
written information regarding a meeting time and location for each morning and evening and
the buddy system must be implemented.

Revised 2024

Page |12

Liability Information
It is understood that Capitol Technology University holds each organization
responsible for the actions of its members and their guests at all times.
Furthermore, it is understood that all student organizations will abide by the
Capitol Technology University Student Code of Conduct. It should also be
noted that if disciplinary actions are taken against a student organization, the
disciplinary process outlined in the Student Handbook would be followed.
Although the University cannot provide constant, on-site supervision of all
activities, it does reserve the right to attend organization functions as well as
enter any premises under the control of an organization when it deems
necessary. Capitol Technology University also reserves the right to discipline
organizations and individual students when there is evidence of misconduct
or the alleged violation University rules, regulations, or outside laws are
brought to the attention of the University. Your organization can be held
accountable for upholding the Capitol Technology University student code of
conduct even if the event is held off-campus.