STUDENT H ANDBO O K
MASTER 2024-2025
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Capitol Technology University Mission, Vision, and Values	3
Mission	3
Vision	3
Values	3
Student Rights and Responsibilities	4
Academic Calendar	4
Closings and Class Delays	4
Code of Conduct	5
Code of Community Standards	5
Philosophy for Community Standards	5
Academic Guidelines	5
Classroom Behavior	5
Course Attendance	6
Undergraduate Student Modality and Tuition	6
Code of Academic Integrity	6
Academic Integrity Violations	6
Computer/Network Guidelines	7
Computer/Network Violations	9
Community Violations	10
Overview of Conduct Review Process	19
State of Maryland and United States Penalties and Sanctions	27
Capitol Technology University Mission, Vision, and Values
Mission
The mission of Capitol Technology University is to educate individuals for professional opportunities in engineering, Computer & Information sciences, and business. We provide relevant learning experiences that lead to success in the evolving global community.

Vision
In 2025, in accordance with the Mission Statement, Capitol Technology University will be seen by its constituents and by the public as:

    • A STEM focused institution of higher education, providing undergraduate and graduate degrees in engineering, information sciences, and technology leadership, that has flexibility and opportunities to grow, and that adapts offerings to emerging workforce needs.
    • A provider of hands-on, career-relevant learning that is conducted in an interdisciplinary and interactive environment, where faculty and staff support student achievement and success.
    • A university that delivers programs of similarly outstanding quality through face-to-face and virtual classrooms, and other forms and mixtures of teaching methods that align with the learning needs of our students.
    • An organization with faculty and leadership who stimulate and implement new curricula, research and entrepreneurial activities for the professions we serve, and that benefit a diverse community of learners.
    • An organization that is closely linked to its constituency of local, regional and national partners in business, government, non-profits, and professions that provide influence for future technology development and policies.
    • An organization that engages the global community, through educating international students, coordinating with educators, and supporting multinational professional associations.
    • A university that develops graduates with communications, analysis and critical thinking skills that allow them to be successful in a global environment and pursue lifelong learning as technical professionals, leaders and innovators.
    • A university that prepares graduates for jobs and careers, and that serves the broader purpose of education to address national needs-based policies through scientific consideration.
    • An organization appropriately sized for quality education and financial viability, with
sustainable assets for faculty and staff to provide a best-value STEM education.

Values
The core values are the characteristics we embrace in working together to fulfill the mission and
achieve the vision of the institution.

    • Quality - always striving for continuous improvement
    • Growth - expanding and changing to meet new needs of society
    • Leadership - offering creative, supportive and shared leadership
    • Balance - maintaining a balance between competing needs
    • Integrity - being honest, ethical and open
    • Teamwork - exercising collective effort to support students and staff
    • Communications - providing timely and useful information
    • Flexibility - discovering and seizing opportunities
    • Safety - maintaining awareness and prevention of accidents and threats

Student Rights and Responsibilities
Capitol Tech actively subscribes to a policy of equal educational and employment opportunity and, in accordance with Title IX of the education amendments of 1972, does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, gender identity or expression, gender orientation, sexual orientation, national or ethnic origin, genetics, disability, age, or veteran status, in admission, treatment of students or employment.

Students and student organizations are free to express their questions and concerns privately and publicly and may utilize the campus media in accordance with the policies of the university. Students and student organizations are free to support causes insofar as the operation of the university is not interrupted.

As members of the Capitol Tech community, students are free, as individuals or in groups, to present their views on university policy and on other areas of general interest to the student body. Students may implement policies regarding student social activities through participation in student government.

Students have a responsibility to engage in the academic community. Students have a responsibility to behave in accordance with university policies. Students have a responsibility to use their rights and freedoms in a manner that does not incite others or impinge upon the rights of other members of the community. Students have a responsibility to report behavior which impinges upon their rights or is in violation of the Code of Community Standards.



Academic Calendar
The university’s academic calendar is on the university website at www.captechu.edu/current-  students/academic-resources.

Closings and Class Delays
In the event of severe weather or other emergencies, any possible cancellations or late openings will be announced to area radio and television broadcasts, posted on the university website and through our Emergency notification app: CapTechUSafe.
The university maintains a recorded message at 301-369-2800 or 888-522-7486 and posts a weather advisory on the website when possible. Because equipment or power failures can interfere with the recorded message, you should listen to the radio or TV.

Code of Conduct
This code of conduct indicates how all members of the community—students, faculty, staff, and trustees—act toward each other, our constituents, and the general public doing business with the university. The code is guided by our Statement of Values. Most relevant to this code is the value of Integrity—being honest, ethical, and open in our communications and behaviors.

We treat each other, and people with whom we relate for the university, with respect and fairness. We respect the rights and dignity of everyone, and we in no way harass other individuals or take advantage of them. We do not use our positions or personal sanctions to coerce any behavior.
Relationships with all university individuals are professional and supportive, especially those with our students. Privileged communications are honored.

We uphold ethical standards of our professions and the laws of our communities. We keep all promises we make as an institution. We try to do what is right even when no one is watching or judging our behavior. By doing so, we build the reputation of our university as being both excellent and ethical.

Code of Community Standards
Philosophy for Community Standards

The Capitol Tech Code of Community Standards has been established to ensure that the environment is conducive to student learning and individual growth and development. As a community of learners seeking personal and professional growth, of scholars committed to teaching, and of professionals dedicated to service, we embrace certain values and community standards. This community is based on respect, personal and community responsibility, trust, fairness, and honesty. These five interwoven values are necessary to provide an environment conducive to the teaching-learning process. All members of the community (students, faculty and staff) are expected to tailor their behavior to be consistent with these community standards.
The Code of Community Standards establishes clear expectations for student behavior and identifies unacceptable behaviors. All members of the Capitol Tech community are responsible for being familiar with the following policies. Members of the community who participate in unacceptable behaviors will be held accountable through the Conduct Review Process. Please take special care to read this information completely and contact the Dean of Students if you are unclear about any of the information contained below.

Academic Guidelines
Classroom Behavior
Your behavior in the classroom affects your instructor and fellow students. Please be courteous to those who share the classroom with you by turning off cell phones and pagers, refraining from the
use of profanity and comply with reasonable requests. Faculty members establish standards

for classroom behavior, course work and grading. These classroom policies are made at the discretion of the faculty, who can request that students leave the classroom if their behavior is disruptive. Faculty members have the right to pursue additional disciplinary proceedings, if deemed appropriate.

Course Attendance
Faculty members establish course attendance policies for each course. Although instructors may choose not to take attendance, course grades often include class participation, unannounced quizzes or both and may be affected if you miss class. Attendance is directly related to your success. If you cannot avoid missing a class, contact your instructor in advance. If you will
miss several classes due to illness or emergency, you should contact the office of student life and retention. Be prepared to provide documentation of the illness or emergency. The Dean of Students or Director of Student Life and Residential Services will assist you in contacting any
instructors. If you miss class consistently you may be reported to the Early Alert Program, and you may be contacted by an advisor or faculty member. If you miss class consistently it is likely that your financial aid package could be cancelled. Failure to attend classes does not eliminate your academic or financial responsibilities.

Undergraduate Student Modality and Tuition
    • Web/Live Online and Laurel students will be billed the per credit hour rate based on the course location when registered for fewer than 12 credits in a semester 
    •  Web/Live Online and Laurel students will be billed the full-time flat rate when registered for 12 to 18 credits in a semester, and the full-time flat rate plus the campus overload per credit rate, regardless of course location, for credits above 18 in a semester.  
    • Asynchronous students will be billed the per credit hour rate based on the course location. Ability to change primary enrollment location 
    • The university will change a student’s primary enrollment location when their primary enrollment location is asynchronous and more than 50% of the credits they are registered for in that semester are in the combined locations of Web/Live Online or On Campus.  
    • Students may request a change of primary enrollment location with the approval of advising and the department chair using a form maintained by the Office of Registration and Records.   
Policy on ADA Service Animals

In accordance with applicable laws and regulations, Capitol Technology University generally 
allows ADA-defined service animals to accompany an individual with a disability into buildings, 
classrooms, residence halls, meetings, dining areas, recreational facilities, activities and events. 
The service animal must be accompanied by an individual for whom the animal is trained to 
provide a specific disability- related service. Capitol may not permit service animals who pose a 
substantial or direct threat to health and safety. On a case-by-case basis, Capitol may or may 
not permit service animals when the presence of the animal constitutes a fundamental 
alteration to the nature of the sponsored program or service

Service Animals Procedures 

Although not legally required, individuals with service animals are strongly encouraged to 
partner with the Dean of Students to help determine whether additional accommodations are 
needed or may be able to make recommendations on accessible campus routes. ). Individuals 
who seek to reside on campus with their service or emotional support animal are expected to 
make all necessary arrangements with the Office of Student Life and Residence Life at least 30 
days prior to arriving on campus. Exceptions may be granted contingent upon the circumstances.

Student Accessibility

The Dean of Students is responsible for helping students with special needs to gain equal access to services and programs at the university. Students requesting accommodations must do so 30 days prior to class starting. The Student Accommodation Request Form and appropriate documentation will be required. 

Counseling

The University has partnered with Innovative Therapy to provide individual therapy to CTU students as well as prescription management via telehealth, phone, and/or in-person appointments. Referrals to Innovative Therapy can be made through the Director of Student Life and/or any member of the Student Life Office.  

Code of Academic Integrity
Academic dishonesty is a serious offense at Capitol Tech because it undermines the bonds of trust and honesty among members of the community; it defrauds those who may eventually depend upon your knowledge and integrity. Academic dishonesty demonstrates disrespect for the educational process and is unfair to fellow students. Every student is responsible for ensuring that academic integrity is pursued.

Prior to the academic year, all faculty are provided with information sheets detailing the Code of Academic Integrity and information to help identify academic dishonesty.

Academic Integrity Violations

    I. Cheating—Using or attempting to use unauthorized materials, information or study aids in any academic exercise. Examples include, but are not limited to, using books or notes
during closed-book tests, using test answers or questions provided by other students, using electronic devices to provide notes or crib sheets.
    II. Complicity—Failing to report incidents of academic dishonesty to the professor, academic dean or Vice President for Academic Affairs.
    III. Fabrication—Unauthorized falsification or invention of any information or citation in an academic exercise. Examples include, but are not limited to, changing collected data to meet the hypothesis, listing a research source that does not exist, listing a quote that does not exist.
    IV. Facilitating Academic Dishonesty—Helping or attempting to help another to violate any provision of this code. Examples include, but are not limited to, giving any individual other than the professor your completed assignment, suggesting ways to cheat or plagiarize, sharing test answers or questions with other students.
    V. Misuse of Human Subjects—conducting research, such as surveys, interviews, questionnaires, quasi-experiments or experiments without informed consent or without approval by the Institutional Review Board.
    VI. Plagiarism—Representing the words or ideas of another as one’s own in any academic exercise. Examples include, but are not limited to, buying papers, turning in a paper written by someone other than yourself, copying a paper or source text without proper acknowledgement, failing to use quotation marks appropriately, paraphrasing materials without appropriate documentation, copying materials from a website and incorporating them into an assignment without citation (also known as cut and paste)
        a. Self-Plagiarism—Submitting the same paper or assignment for more than one class for a grade without the professor’s knowledge or permission.
        b. Plagiarism (Artificial Intelligence)—AI-generated work without proper permission is considered an academic integrity violation. The GPTZero.COM/GAI Detector software or other industry standard software may be used to assess non-human submissions. (Graduate Students are not permitted to use AI)

Computer/Network Guidelines
    • Electronic Mail/Communication—Email and other techniques used to communicate via the computer are important tools for interaction. Capitol Tech encourages the use of this medium by students, faculty, staff and alumni within the boundaries of the following guidelines. Email is not a private means of communication.

By law, email is owned by the university, not you. Capitol Tech will make every effort to ensure reasonable privacy of your email, but it is possible that university personnel, in the function of their positions, may access your account messages. Be aware that your account can be subpoenaed for legal issues.
        ◦ Identify yourself clearly and accurately in all email and electronic communication. Using a pseudonym or writing an anonymous message that appears to disassociate you from the responsibility of your actions is always inappropriate. Concealing your name or affiliation to mask irresponsible or offensive behavior is a serious abuse. Using identifiers of other individuals or organizations constitutes fraud.
        ◦ Chain letters and mass mailings waste university resources. Only university- authorized individuals may make these mailings and then only for purposes supporting the university’s mission.
        ◦ Security of accounts is primarily your responsibility. All students, staff, and faculty members are provided with an individual email account. Do not give your password to anyone. Do not allow anyone to use your account at any time. This protects you from accidental or intentional illegal or unethical acts by any person using your account.
        ◦ Capitol Tech supplies lifetime email accounts to its students. As a private, nonprofit institution, it is important that resources are not used for commercial or personal profit. These accounts should be used for personal, educational or university purposes only.
        ◦ Offensive, harassing, defamatory or otherwise inappropriate messages on the university email system are prohibited. Use of email is subject to all legal and university prohibitions regarding discrimination or harassment based on race, color, religion, sex, disability, age, ethnic background or prohibited basis. The university also does not condone the use of email system to transmit or display lewd or suggestive material.
        ◦ Capitol Tech utilizes third party services, including but not limited to Office 365 and OneDrive, users are expected to abide by those parties Terms of Service in addition to those published by Capitol Tech. Third party services may exercise their right to terminate individual accounts based on their Terms of Service. Disclaimer: Capitol Tech disclaims all responsibility for servers other than Capitol Tech’s servers. No such unofficial server may use Capitol Tech’s name, logo or other symbols identified with the university or that purport to speak for the university or any of its units and cannot imply an association with or sponsorship by the university.

    • Internet Use—The Internet is a global entity with no control of users or content. Therefore, available resources may contain material of a controversial nature. Not all sources on
the Internet provide accurate, complete or current information. You need to be a good information consumer who questions the validity of the information.

Internet services may not be used in a manner that would violate any law or infringe any copyright, trademark, and trade secret, right of publicity, privacy right or any other right of any person or entity.

All use of Capitol Tech facilities must be consistent with the business of the university. Information placed on the system may relate only to charitable, educational, scientific, cultural, social or economic matters.

Academic work and email access take precedence over the use of university computers for
entertainment such as web surfing and game playing. Internet services may not be used to
transmit or store material that is obscene, libelous or defamatory.

Attempts to obtain unauthorized access to or alteration of either local or remote computer systems or networks are strictly prohibited.

It is expected that users of the university computer services show maturity and use good judgment when using the computers.

    • Network Usage—The university network is intended to provide students access in support of academic pursuits. Specific standards regarding network usage are outlined in Capitol Tech’s community standards. The university reserves the right to limit uploading and downloading rates as determined by the Office of Information Services and Technology.

Use of hardware or software which may disrupt network access on campus is strictly prohibited. Items which might reasonably be expected to disrupt the network include but are not limited to: wireless access points, routers, and servers providing DNS or DHCP services.

All students who plan to use their own computer on campus should have an active subscription to an anti-spam and anti-virus program and regularly scan their computers
    • College Owned and Operated Systems/Software—
    • Personal Devices—By connecting a personally owned device to a university computer or network you take responsibility for and authorize the university to review the contents of that device. You may not connect devices known to be infected with malware to university computers or networks.

Computer/Network Violations
    I. Internet Use
        ◦ Use of university owned or operated computer or network that would violate any law or infringe any copyright, trademark, and trade secret, right of publicity, privacy right or any other right of any person or entity
        ◦ Use of the system for any personal profit-oriented, commercial or business purpose is
strictly prohibited.
        ◦ Use of university owned hardware or internet services for the transmission and/or storing of material that is obscene, libelous or defamatory.
        ◦ Internet services may not be used to transmit or store material that is obscene, libelous or defamatory.
    II. Electronic Mail/Communication
        ◦ Offensive, harassing, defamatory or otherwise inappropriate messages on the university email system are prohibited. Use of email is subject to all legal and university prohibitions regarding discrimination or harassment based on race, color, religion, sex, disability, age,
ethnic background or prohibited basis. The university also does not condone the use of email system to transmit or display lewd or suggestive material.
        ◦ Internet services may not be used in a manner that would violate any law or infringe any copyright, trade ark, and trade secret, right of publicity, privacy right or any other right of any person or entity.
        ◦ Attempts to obtain unauthorized access to or alteration of either local or remote computer systems or networks are strictly prohibited.

    III. Network Usage
        ◦ Use of hardware or software which may disrupt network access on campus is strictly prohibited. Items which might reasonably be expected to disrupt the network include but are not limited to: wireless access points, routers, and servers providing DNS or DHCP services.

Community Misconduct
In a community that values respect, individuals consider how their actions and behaviors will affect other members of the community. Individuals committed to developing a sense of respect act in a courteous manner out of consideration for other members of the community. Members of the Capitol Tech community are expected to act in a manner that honors the rights of the other members of the community.

Community Violations
In a community that values fairness, safety, and trust, individuals should strive to create an atmosphere free from violence, discrimination, and bias. Individuals committed to developing a sense of fairness act in a manner that is without prejudice and places all members of the community on equal footing. Members of the Capitol Tech community are expected to treat
other individuals and the community as a whole in a fair manner. As a community committed to developing a comfortable environment for everyone, the following actions have been identified as unacceptable behaviors:

    I. Arson
Setting or attempting to set fire to, or creating a fire on university-owned or -operated property

    II. Disorderly Conduct
Unruly gatherings, disruptive behavior, excessive noise, public intoxication by alcohol or drugs, and other such behaviors, which are disruptive to the life of the university community or which is outside of classroom or learning standards or which disregards the rights of members of the community.

    III. Destruction of Property
Intentionally or recklessly, but not accidentally damaging, destroying, defacing or tampering with
university property or the property of another are all prohibited, as is the attempt or conspiracy to damage, destroy, etc.

    IV. Harassment.
Harassment is verbal or physical conduct that is a threat to the well-being of a person or group. Such conduct includes: verbal or written communication, communicated directly or through contact by telephone, computer or third party; invasion of privacy; or actions which restrict the freedom or movement of another person or endanger the health and safety of another person. Harassment includes conduct directed at individuals, as well as, conduct which is based on race, color, sex/gender, disability, religion, national or ethnic origin.

        a. Retaliatory Harassment is adverse action, such as those stated above, taken against a person because of the person’s participation in a grievance, complaint or investigation. Such behavior may include but is not limited to retaliation against a grievant, victim or witness involved in an investigation of discrimination or sexual misconduct; retaliation against grievant, victim or witness by a respondent or
the respondent’s friends or others who are sympathetic to the accused; includes retaliation directed toward a third party because of his or her participation in the conduct or grievance process or for supporting a grievant, victim or witness.
        b. Stalking is engaging in a course of conduct (two or more acts) directed at a specific person that would cause a reasonable person to fear for the person’s safety or the safety of others, or to suffer substantial emotional distress.

    V. Hazing/Bodily Harm
        a. Intentionally inflicting bodily harm upon any person; this is not limited to but
expressly includes dating violence and domestic violence.
        b. Taking any action for the purpose of inflicting bodily harm; this is not limited to but
expressly includes dating violence and domestic violence.
        c. Taking any reckless, but not accidental, action that could result in bodily harm to any person;
    VI. Hazing/Mental Harm
        a. Intentionally inflicting mental harm upon any person; this is not limited to but
expressly includes dating violence* and domestic violence**.
        b. Taking any action for the purpose of inflicting mental harm; this is not limited to but
expressly includes dating violence and domestic violence.
        c. Taking any reckless, but not accidental, action which demeans, degrades or disgraces any person.
    VII. Dating Violence
Violence committed by a person who is or has been in a social relationship of a romantic or
intimate nature with the victim. The existence of such a relationship shall be based on the reporting party’s statement and with consideration of the length of the relationship, the type of relationship, and the frequency of interaction between the persons involved in the relationship

    VIII. Domestic Violence
Violence committed by a family or household member; a current or former spouse or intimate partner; a person with whom the victim shares a child; a person who is cohabiting with or has cohabitated with the victim as a spouse or intimate partner.

    IX. Indecent Conduct
        a. Conduct not in keeping with community standards;
        b. Conduct not in keeping with established university policies or postings including, but not limited to, information services, computer use guidelines, Internet use guidelines, library policies, Guide to Residence Living;
        c. Conduct inconsistent with criminal statues;
        d. Conduct not in keeping with faculty established policy;

    X. Noncompliance
        a. Failure to comply with the directive of a faculty or staff member including student employees (including but not limited to resident assistants, library aides, computer services employees…) acting in the performance of his or her duties; Such directives include, but are not limited to, a request for identification, request to leave an area temporarily, request to cease disruptive behavior;
        b. Failure to comply with classroom policy as established by the instructor/faculty member.
        c. Failure to comply with lab policies.
        d. Taking any actions or expressing actions which prohibit the performance of staff members, including student employees, acting in the performance of his or her duties;
        e. Failure to fulfill any sanctions levied as a result of a conduct proceeding;

    XI. Sexual Assault
        a. Non-consensual sexual contact which is any intentional sexual touching, however slight, with any object or body part by one person upon another person, that is without consent and/or by force. Sexual contact includes contact with breasts, buttock, groin, genitals, mouth or other orifice and includes making another touch you or themselves with or on any of these body parts. This is not limited to but expressly includes dating violence* and domestic violence*.
        b. Non-consensual sexual intercourse which is any sexual intercourse, however slight, with any object by one person upon another person that is without consent and/or by force. Sexual intercourse includes: penetration of body includes vaginal or anal penetration by a penis, object, tongue, or finger and oral copulation by mouth-to- genital or genital-to- mouth contact no matter how slight the penetration or contact. This is not limited to but expressly includes dating violence* and domestic violence.
*Consent is informed or knowing, voluntary or freely given, active, clear words or actions, indicating permission to engage in mutually agreed on activity (in the above context, this is sexual activity).

    XII. Sexual Misconduct
        a. Harassment including unwelcome verbal or physical conduct that is gender- based or of a sexual nature
        b. Sexual Exploitation, which is when a person takes non-consensual or abusive sexual advantage of another for his/her own advantage or benefit, or to benefit or advantage anyone other than the one being exploited, or to the detriment of the exploited individual. Exploitation includes; invasion of sexual privacy; non- consensual video of breasts, buttock, groin, genitals, or audio-taping of sexual activity; exposing one’s genitals in non- consensual circumstances or inducing another to expose their genitals.
    XIII. Complicity
Presence during any violation of university policy in such a way as to condone, support or encourage that violation. Students who anticipate or observe a violation of university policy are expected to remove themselves from participation and encouraged to report the violation to university personnel. Not doing so may result in conduct charges being levied against the student witnessing a violation;

    XIV. Contractual Obligations
        a. Failure to honor all contracts with and debts to the university or entities for which the university collects debts or obligations (including terms and conditions of the housing license on campus);
        b. Violations of the housing license or published rules, and regulations of the Office of
Residence Life, as well as campus facilities including Innovator’s Hall;
        c. Failure to honor all Terms of Service for third party services engaged by the
University including but not limited to; Office365 and OneDrive.

    XV. Dishonesty/Fabrication
        a. Furnishing false information to the university by forgery, alteration or misuse of, among other things, university documents or records;
        b. Furnishing or conspiring to furnish to the university, or its representatives including, but not limited to, conduct hearing and appeals board. A written or oral false statement;
        c. Furnishing false identification to a university official;
        d. Knowingly or intentionally providing false information to a university staff member, including student employees acting in the performance of their duties;
        e. Concealing identity, using a pseudonym or acting anonymously in a manner that appears to disassociate an individual from the responsibility of his or her actions is considered a violation

    XVI. Theft
        a. Attempted theft, theft of services, possession of stolen property, conspiracy to steal or the selling of stolen property (theft of services includes calling card and credit card fraud);
        b. Downloading or offering to re-distribute copy-written material (movies, music, software) without the express permission of the owner is theft;
        c. The appropriation of, attempt to appropriate, or conspiracy to appropriate university property for private use including, but not limited to, laboratory equipment, furniture or library books;


    XVII. Forcible Entry or Trespass
        a. Forcible entry, unauthorized entry, conspiracy or attempt at such entry into any building, student room, mailbox, locker, structure, facility or roof thereof;
        b. Unauthorized entry to or use of university grounds;
        c. Accessing another person’s email, computer or Internet account is prohibited; and Attempts to obtain unauthorized access to or alteration of either local or remote
        d. computer systems or networks are strictly prohibited;

    XVIII. Unauthorized Use of University Keys
Unauthorized use, conspiracy or attempt at unauthorized use, distribution, duplication or possession of any keys issued for any university building, laboratory, facility or room;

In a community that values responsibility, individuals are accountable for their actions and assume the obligations of citizenship. Individuals committed to developing a sense of responsibility act in a manner that is rational and consistent with laws and policies. Members of the Capitol Tech community are expected to accept responsibility for their personal actions and the community at large. As a community committed to developing a sense of personal and
community responsibility the following actions have been identified as unacceptable behaviors:

    XIX. Alcohol
Capitol Tech is a member of and adheres to the standards of the Network of Colleges and Universities Committed to the Elimination of Drug and Alcohol Abuse.
The university implements policies and procedures that promote responsible drinking by only those 21 or older, as per Maryland state law.

        a. Maryland law provides that a person commits an offense if he or she being less than 21 years of age, attempts to purchase, purchases, consumes or possesses any alcoholic beverages;
        b. It is unlawful for any person to sell, furnish or give any liquor or permit any liquor to be sold, furnished or given to anyone under 21 years of age;
        c. The consumption of alcoholic beverages in public places, including hallways and common areas or buildings on university grounds without authorization;
        d. Beer kegs, beer balls, any similar type of common source and their equivalent in volume of beer or alcohol content are not permitted in the residence halls or on campus without authorization;
        e. The use or possession of grain alcohol is prohibited;
        f. Only alcohol-related advertising and promotions that are deemed educational in nature and adhere to these standards will be permitted. All requests for such
advertising must be approved by the director of student life and residential services, who is the campus representative to the network.

    XX. Chronic Misbehavior
        a. Second offenses of a minor nature that may result in student life disruption.
        b. Third offenses of a minor nature that may result in student life disruption.

    XXI. Explosives/Firearms (Weapons)
        a. The sale, possession, production, purchase or use of any explosives, incendiary devices, lethal weapons or reasonable facsimile thereof on university property is prohibited as is conspiracies or attempted activities of this nature;
        b. The sale, possession, production or use of any fireworks, or a reasonable facsimile thereof, on university property is prohibited, as is conspiracies or attempted activities of this nature;
        c. The sale, possession, production, purchase or use of any weapon, which is defined as any object used to inflict a wound or cause injury. Examples include, but are not limited to, knives, look-alike weapons, BB guns, dangerous chemicals, etc;
    XXII. Illegal/Addictive Drugs
        a. Capitol Tech enforces drug policies which are consistent with state and federal statutes.
        b. The use, possession, manufacturing, sale or distribution of any illegal or controlled substance is prohibited.
        c. The use and possession of drug paraphernalia, including but not limited to blow tubes, rolling paper, pipes, etc., and items which promote the use of drugs is also prohibited.

    XXIII. Parking Violations
Cars parked in service drives, fire lanes (indicated by painted yellow curbs), or traffic lanes will be
towed without a warning being issued.

Vehicles parked in a handicapped space without displaying a valid, state-issued handicapped permit or license plate.

        a. Illegal parking that presents a safety hazard
        b. Obstruction to the normal flow of traffic
        c. Refusal to comply with regulations
        d. Repeated or flagrant offenses (including failure to register vehicle) such as modifications of vehicles which cause a disruption to college business and residential services (ie: loud music, exhaust mufflers, etc)
        e. Apparent of assumed abandonment of the vehicle exceeding 5 business days

Cars parked in designated parking without the proper tags or passes or parked in lots A,B, or D (those closest to the academic buildings) between midnight and 6am:

    a. First offense will result in a warning being placed on the car and documented in the parking violations log. The warning will include a statement that future violations of any unregistered vehicle will result in the car being towed with no additional warnings being issued. Owners of registered vehicles will also receive an email.
    b. Second offense of a registered vehicle will result in a fine of $50 and a statement that no further warnings will be issued. Any future violations will result in the revocation of parking privileges and the car will be towed with no further warnings being issued.
    c. Second offense of an unregistered vehicle will result in the vehicle being towed without additional warning.
    XXIV. Postering on Campus
The Office of Student Life establishes guidelines for posters on campus. All fliers posted on campus by student groups, individual students and outside vendors must be approved by the Office of Student Life. Hanging posters in the residence halls is subject to the rules and guidelines determined by the Office of Residence Life. Only approved materials and information can be posted. Unapproved materials may be removed from bulletin boards. Contact the Office of Student Life for specific guidelines.

    XXV. Safety
        a. Tampering with safety devices, such as alarm systems, fire extinguishers, exit signs, smoke and heat detectors, fire hoses, etc.
        b. Failure to conform to safety regulations, such as falsely reporting an incident, failure to evacuate facilities in a timely manner in emergency situations or in response to fire alarms, inappropriate use of the fire alarm system, overall safety;

    XXVI. Smoking/Fire Hazard
        a. Maryland law bans smoking in all nonresidential buildings where the public has access.
        b. Effective July 1, 2015, Capitol Tech is a smoke- free campus.
        c. The smoking or vaping of items including but not limited to cigarettes, cigarillos, cigars, e-cigarettes and vape pens is prohibited anywhere on campus;
        d. Candles, incense and other incendiary devices similar to these are prohibited in the residence halls;

    XXVII. Solicitation
        a. Selling items or soliciting members of the university community for personal private business is prohibited;
        b. Fund-raising activities are allowed only by recognized student organizations with prior approval from the Director of Student Life and a Vice President;
        c. Using a university email account for personal or commercial profit is strictly
prohibited;
        d. Use of the university’s Internet system for any personal profit-oriented, commercial
or business purpose is prohibited;
        e. The posting or distribution of advertisements for the promotion of commercial interests is prohibited;

    XXVIII. Uncrewed Vehicles Systems (UVSs)
        a. Uncrewed vehicles systems are any machine, apparatus, or device used or designed to navigate in the air, terrain, or water, that is operated remotely or without direct human intervention from within or on the machine.
        b. All operators shall avoid unprotected people, vessels, vehicles, or structures and shall avoid endangerment of life or property of others.
        c. UVSs shall not create undue hazard to University owned or controlled property, the University community, or the public and may not be operated in such a way that unduly affects the environment of those working within a building, or those entering, exiting, or walking around a facility.
        d. UVSs may not be operated recreationally inside University buildings, if used for academic purposes, staff or faculty must supervise the use of the UV.
        e. The UVS must be under the control of the operator at all times.
        f. The UVS must be within line of sight of the operator at all times. The operator is responsible for any damage caused by the drone.
        g. If the UVS is airborne it may not exceed 400 feet above ground level h. The UVS may not exceed 55 pounds in weight.
        h. The UVS must remain at least 25 feet away from University buildings.
        i. Regarding payload(s) that may be attached to the UVSs—all payloads attached to UVSs for recreational purposes must first be approved by an Executive of Capitol Technology University, or the designee of the President. Payloads include but are not limited to; video equipment, audio equipment, wireless or cellular data collection equipment, any sensors collecting data or information, and any item or device that might be placed by the UVS.

    XXIX. Amnesty Policy
        a. Victims of assault, violence, domestic or dating violence, or sexual assault will not be charged with violations of the university’s alcohol or drug policies related to possible violations which coincided with the events leading up to, the incidence
of, or events closely following the assault, violence, domestic or dating violence or sexual assault or which are revealed during the reporting or investigation of assault, violence, domestic or dating violence, or sexual assault.
        b. Witnesses of assault, violence, domestic or dating violence, or sexual assault will not be charged with violations of the university’s alcohol or drug policies related to possible violations which coincided events leading up to, the incidence of, or
events closely following the assault, violence, domestic or dating violence or sexual assault.
        c. Alleged perpetrators of assault, violence, domestic or dating violence, or sexual assault will not be charged with violations of the university’s alcohol or drug policies related to possible violations which coincided events leading up to, the incidence
of, or events closely following the assault, violence, domestic or dating violence or sexual assault.
        d. Students who report a suspected medical emergency will not be charged with violations of the university’s alcohol or drug policies related to possible violations which coincided events leading up to, the incidence of, or events closely following the potential medical emergency.
        e. Students meeting the criteria above may be treated as having a serious but not life- threatening health concern. The student will be required to seek evaluation and the university will ensure that the student does not suffer financial hardship as a result.
    XXX. Discrimination
Discrimination against any person on the basis of race, disability, age, sex, color, creed, religion, political persuasion or national origin;

    XXXI. Visitor Policy
In a community that values honesty, individuals are straightforward and sincere. Individuals committed to developing a sense of honesty are open and frank in all situations and earn or gain recognition only through fair means. Members of the Capitol Tech community are expected to act with sincerity and integrity at all times. As a community committed to honest exchange, the following actions have been identified as unacceptable behaviors:

        a. All guests must act in a manner consistent with Capitol Tech’s policies and guidelines. Guests are expected to behave in a way that will not infringe upon another’s freedom, privacy, and safety;
        b. Overnight guests see policy in Guide to Residence Life
        c. Guests are to be escorted by their host at all times;
        d. Hosts are responsible for actions of their guests and will be held accountable if a guest violates policy while visiting;


Overview of Conduct Review Process

    A. Reporting Concerns or Violations
        1. Conduct not in keeping with the Code of Community Standards will be reported to the director of student life and residential services or a designated conduct review facilitator. The director of student life and residential services or conduct review facilitator will investigate the matter. The director or conduct review facilitator will determine if there is reason to believe the behavior was a violation of the Code of Community Standards.

        2. In cases where the behavior has been committed by a student, the Office of Student
Life may assist in reaching an informal resolution and retains the right to initiate the Conduct Review Process. In cases where the behavior has been committed by a faculty or staff member the grievance procedure outlined on page 71 will be used to address the matter. In the case of a violation of the Code of Academic Integrity, the incident will be reported to the director of student life and residential services or a designee after review by the academic leadership (Academic Dean and/or Vice President for Academic Affairs). The case will follow the Conduct Review Process.

        3. Matters which are urgent including any form of violence, assault or sexual assault should be reported by calling Security (301) 938-2928 or the Residence Life Staff
(301) 655-2115.Conduct which is based on race, color, sex/gender, disability, religion, national or ethnic origin will be referred to the Title IX Coordinator. All cases involving an individual who was potentially victimized (complainant) and a perpetrator (respondent) as in cases of the potential violation of the Harassment,
Hazing/ Bodily Harm, Sexual Misconduct. Sexual Assault, Hazing/Mental Harm, Theft or Discrimination portions of the Code of Community Standards will be referred to the Title IX Coordinator. The Title IX Coordinator is Melinda Bunnell-Rhyne. The Title IX Coordinator can be reached in Room B246, at mabunnell-rhyne@captechu.edu or
(301) 369-2543.

    B. Classification of Allegations
During or at the end of the investigation, the investigators, conduct facilitator, and as appropriate,
the Title IX Coordinator will classify the potential violations. Classifications will include:

        1. Academic Integrity Matter—matters which are viewed as impacting the operations and integrity of Capitol Technology University and not as directed at an individual or group of specific individuals. The university is the only complainant.
        2. Community Standards Matter without victimization—matters which are viewed as impacting the operations and integrity of Capitol Technology University and not as directed at an individual or group of specific individuals. The university is the only complainant.
        3. Community Standards Matter including victimization—matters viewed as directed at or directly impacting an individual or group. The university only or the university and an individual or specific group of individuals are the complainant.
        4. Unsupported—based on current information or matters where a victim or complainant elects not to participate in the investigation or conduct review process and where evidence to support the probability of a violation cannot be collected. Matters found to be Unsupported based on current information may be revisited should additional information become available.
        5. Mediated Resolution—matters where mediation is an appropriate response and where both the complainant and the respondent have agreed to a mediated resolution.

The classification of the allegation will determine the process the university will use to address the matter. Within three business days of the determination of the classification of the alleged violations the respondent and complainant will be notified of the classification of the matter.
    D. Investigation of Alleged violations or Other Disruptions to Community Life
A conduct facilitator will meet with the complainant and the respondent separately. During that meeting the conduct facilitator will review the incident and alleged violations. This meeting is both educational and developmental in nature. The first goal is to ensure the investigation notes clearly and accurately describe the incident; the second goal is to describe the complainant and the respondent rights in the conduct review process. For respondents where the alleged violation(s) is(are) classified as an Academic Integrity or Community Standards Matter without Victimization two options will be outlined: waive your right to a formal review before a conduct review panel
or appear before a conduct review panel. For respondents where the alleged violation(s) is (are) classified as a Community Standards Matter including Victimization the conduct review panel process will be outlined.

Respondents waiving the right to a formal review accept the sanctions as recommended by the conduct facilitator. Waiving the right to a formal review by the conduct review panel, will also waive the right to appeal. Respondent will sign the waiver and receive final notification of the results.

If the matter is classified as a Community Standards Matter including Victimization or the respondent elects to appear before a conduct review panel, the conduct facilitator will initiate the formal review by the conduct review panel.

Depending on the nature and severity of the alleged incident or in order to address confidentiality, a hearing officer or a review panel of three to five members of the conduct review board may be assigned to review the alleged violation(s). An established pool of neutral faculty, staff and/or students trained to review potential policy violations is used to select a hearing officer or compose a conduct review board.

The conduct facilitator will establish a time for the review panel to meet. The complainant and the respondent will be notified in writing of the portions of the Code of Community Standards or Code of Academic Integrity alleged to have been violated and the time, date and location of the review panel’s meeting. The complainant and the respondent will be notified at least three business days prior to the review panel’s meeting. In addition, the conduct facilitator will notify the review panel and any other members of the community believed to have information pertinent to the incident of the time, date and location of the review panel’s meeting.

Both complainant and respondent should prepare for the review panel’s meeting. Both complainant and respondent may choose to have an advocate present during the meeting. An advocate can be another Capitol Tech student, a friend, a Capitol Tech faculty/staff/administrator or a family member. Generally, an advocate is present to provide support. The advocate may consult with individual they are advocating for and interact privately with the individual they are advocating for during conduct proceedings. The advocate is not permitted, however, to represent the complainant or respondent. Both complainant and respondent may review the file that will be presented to the review panel prior to the meeting. Both complainant and respondent may ask additional eyewitnesses to attend the meeting. Witnesses must provide only eyewitness accounts and must be approved by the conduct facilitator 24 hours in advance of the meeting. If either the
complainant or respondent do not appear before the review panel and do not provide notice that he or she will be unable to attend, the incident will be reviewed and a decision made in his or her absence.

The conduct facilitator will be available throughout the meeting to act as a resource for the review panel and both complainant and respondent, but the conduct facilitator will not participate in the decision-making process. For matters of Academic Integrity or Community Standards Matter without Victimization, the conduct facilitator will gather participants in the room. A statement describing the review panel’s process will be read. This statement includes introductions of all involved and the fact that all witness statements are recorded. After the introductory statement is made, respondent will remain with the review panel and make a brief statement in response to the alleged violations. The review panel will then have the respondent step out and speak
to each witness in turn. After speaking to all witnesses, the panel will have the opportunity to speak to respondent again to clarify any questions. For Community Standards Matters including Victimization, a statement describing the review panel’s process will be read three times; once to the respondent, once to the complainant, and once to all other witnesses. This statement includes introductions of all involved and the fact that all witness statements are recorded. After the introductory statement is made, respondent or complainant will remain with the review panel and make a brief statement in response to the alleged violations. The review panel will then have the respondent and complainant step out and speak to each available witness in turn. After speaking to all witnesses, the panel will have the opportunity to speak to respondent or the complainant again to clarify any questions.

After all statements are heard, the panel will discuss the case and determine if the respondent “more likely” did or did not violate the Code of Community Standards. This discussion will
not be recorded; the panel chair will summarize this discussion in a written report. Once the determination is made, the panel will notify the conduct facilitator. If the respondent is found not responsible for violating the Code of Community Standards, both the respondent and the complainant will receive written notification from the conduct facilitator and the letter will be placed in the respondent’s discipline file. If the respondent is found responsible for violating the Code of Community Standards, the respondent’s entire discipline file will be provided
to the conduct review panel by the conduct facilitator for review. The panel will determine sanctions and may consider the information the panel reviewed via statements and written reports, the respondent’s conduct file, minimum sanction guidelines, the conduct facilitator’s recommendations, and other information, as the conduct review board deems appropriate. The panel chair will notify the conduct facilitator in writing of the findings as to the incident, sanctions and summary of panel’s discussion. The conduct facilitator will notify both the respondent and complainant in writing within 10 business days of the conclusion of the hearing of the panel’s decision and the sanctions, if appropriate; this letter will be kept in the respondent’s conduct file.

    E. Hierarchy of Conduct Facilitators and Potential Sanctions
In order to convey transparency and understanding in the conduct review and appeals process, Capitol Technology University has established the following hierarchy of both potential conduct facilitators as well as potential sanctions:

Level 1—First-Time and/or Low-level violations of Sections I-III of Student Handbook Conduct
Facilitators:
        i. Assistant Director of Residential Services for incidents reported/submitted by Resident Assistants
        ii. Director of Student Life and Residential Services for incidents/reports relating to Capitol Technology University clubs and organizations as well as student conduct occurring outside of the residential facility
Potential Sanctions: Verbal warning, written warning, educational task, restitution/fines, on- campus employer notification.

Level 2—Multiple, repeated, or Moderate-level violations of Sections I-III of Student Handbook

    i. Conduct Facilitators:
        a. Director of Student Life and Residential Services - for all incidents occurring in Capitol Technology University housing as well as student clubs and organizations, on or off property
        b. Conduct Board - this also includes Academic Dishonesty Committee

    ii. Potential Sanctions: housing probation, email privilege suspension, internet access suspension, Visitation Ban, or activity suspension.
Level 3—Violations of Sections I-III of the Student Handbook endangering academic or residential persistence as well as criminal offences.

    i. Conduct Facilitators:
        a. Conduct Board for cases as determined by Director Student Life and Residential Services
        b. Dean of Students
        c. Vice President University Development and Student Engagement
        d. Vice President Academic Affairs

    ii. Potential Sanctions: Expulsion, Permanent removal and ban from university housing, Suspension and ban from university housing.
    F. Sanctions for Violations of Community Standards
Duly authorized conduct review panels or university officials can impose any of the following sanctions, depending on the seriousness of the conduct in question and the circumstances of the case:
    • Interim Suspension of Computer Privileges—The university can suspend your email account, residential network access or other computer privileges, pending disciplinary action. Interim suspension of privileges is immediately effective without prior notice when there is evidence that your continued activity poses a threat to yourself, to others or to the normal functions of the university.
If your privileges are suspended on an interim basis, you have the right to appear personally before the Dean of Students or a designee. You have five business days from the effective suspension date to make this appearance. You can discuss the reliability of the information concerning your activity or if the activity and surrounding circumstances indicate that you pose a threat to anyone or as named above.
    • Suspension of Third-Party Services—Those services for which the university uses third party solutions are governed by the third party’s Terms of Service. Suspension of your access or accounts for these services will follow the process outlin,ed in the Terms of Service. The Terms of Service supersedes the university’s policies; however the university retains the right to suspend your access or account based on institutional policy and process.
    • Disciplinary Warning—official warning from the university that behaviors or actions were
inappropriate. This sanction is reasonable for low-level violations.
    • Disciplinary Probation—official notice from the university that your behavior will not be tolerated. Further policy violations during this specified period of time will result in more severe sanctions, extended probation at a minimum, and may include suspension or expulsion.
    • Activity Suspension—official notice from the university that, as a result of your inappropriate behavior you may not participate in any university-sponsored sports, recognized clubs or organizations.
    • On-Campus Employer Notification—if the violation occurs while you are at work, or if your work might be a means for future violations, this sanction may be appropriate. A copy of the sanction letter will be distributed to your on-campus supervisor with direction that you are also responsible for any additional job sanctions your supervisor deems appropriate. The university will not request or require notification from the supervisor if any additional sanctions are determined.
    • Informational/Reflection Task—a task aimed at providing you with the opportunity to gain more knowledge about a related issue, or to provide others with information based on your experience. This can include a research paper, an annotated bibliography, a newsletter, presentation for faculty, staff and students, or bulletin board. Progress and the resulting product will be monitored and collected by the director of student life and residential services.
    • Email Privilege Suspension (specified amount of time or permanent)—all students are given an email account when they enroll in classes at Capitol Tech. This is a privilege, and you can keep the email account indefinitely as long as you remain in good standing. This sanction will take away that privilege for a period of time or can be permanent.
    • Internet Access Suspension (specified amount of time or permanent)—Each residence hall room is wired for Internet access. This is a privilege and can be revoked if your conduct warrants suspension. This sanction will take away that privilege for a period of time or can be permanent.
    • Community Service—a service project that directly relates to the offense, and has been recommended by the sanctioning conduct review board.
    • Restitution—payment for damages incurred, such as personal or university- owned property, which, as a result of your behavior, action or inaction, was damaged, stolen, broken or vandalized. It would be most appropriate to determine a middle person to collect money or
check from the accused student and distribute to the university or victim.
    • Fines—financial penalty to be determined by the conduct facilitator or Conduct Review Board.
    • No Contact or Restricted Contact—it may be determined by the conduct review board that it is necessary for the good of the community or an individual, or to safeguard against further violations, to limit contact between two or more people for a specified amount of time or permanently. Contact would be defined as face-to-face, telephone, email, Internet, through a third party or U.S. or campus mail. All types of contact could be restricted, based on the board’s decision.
    • Restricted Access—restriction or termination of an individual’s access to a residence, any designated part of a residence as a guest, the university, any designated portion of the university or a class.
    • Recommended No Credit/Failing Grade—a board may recommend to the professor that you are not given credit or are given a failing grade for an academic project or the course based on violations of the code of academic integrity. The board could recommend to the professor that you be permitted to redo work or retake an exam, quiz or lab.
    • Visitation Ban (for specified amount of time or permanent)—visiting the students who live in the residence halls is a privilege that could be revoked if the behavior of the guest is not acceptable, such as disruptive or in violation of resident students’ rights. You could be
banned permanently or for a specified amount of time. Your guests would not be permitted
to be near or in the residence halls during that time.
    • Housing Probation (for a specified amount of time or permanent)—housing probation means that your status as a residential student is in jeopardy. Additional charges while on this sanction may result in removal from the residence halls.
    • Suspension and Ban from Campus Housing—formal removal from campus housing for a specified time due to policy violations (either based on severity or on repeat offenses). You will not be permitted to visit the halls during your suspension. Once taken off suspension, you will regain eligibility for campus housing.
    • Permanent Removal and Ban from Campus Housing—formal, permanent removal from campus housing. You will not be permitted to visit the halls or off- campus apartments permanently.
    • Suspension—formal removal of a student for a specified period of time as a result of any policy violations or history of violations that jeopardize the community. You will be instructed to remove yourself and any belongings that you have on campus; you are not permitted
to attend class, communicate with faculty or staff, participate in social activities or be present on university-owned property for a specified amount of time, usually designated by semesters.
    • Expulsion—formal permanent removal as a result of a policy violation or history of violations that jeopardize the community. You will never be permitted on university property and could face criminal charges if on campus.

    G. Appeals Process for Conduct Sanctions
Either the complainant or the respondent may appeal the decision to the Vice President of Student
Engagement and University Development or their designee within five business days of receipt
of results. The appeal must be based on the university’s failure to follow the outlined procedures.
Or clear demonstration that there was not a fair opportunity to have the incident reviewed by an unbiased board, or new information that was not available at the first meeting of the review panel must be provided. If the Vice President University Development and Student Engagement
approves the appeal, members of the Capitol Tech community will be appointed to a committee.

The respondent’s conduct file will include any incident or observation reports filed with the Director of Student Life and Residential Services, the actions taken as a result of the report and any final outcomes resulting from the report. The conduct file will not include the entire proceedings of the conduct review process. Those proceedings will be maintained in an
incident file and will be maintained for two years following the outcome. The conduct file will be maintained for five years after the last outcome or last completed sanctions. If the respondent is suspended or expelled because of conduct at the university, the conduct file will be maintained indefinitely. Students have the right to review their own file as outlined under the student records policy in the university catalog.

Conduct may result in university action, legal action or both for behavior in violation of laws or community standards. University action in these incidents will proceed and will likely be prior to the completion of legal proceedings. University actions will not be subject to challenge based on the outcome of legal proceedings.

    H. Grievance Procedures
If you witness or are a victim of behavior by a faculty or staff member that is inconsistent with the community standards or have concerns related to treatment you have received from a faculty or staff member, you may file a letter with the appropriate Executive Council member. The appropriate Executive Council member is the executive responsible for the operations of the area within which the faculty or staff member is employed. If the appropriate Executive Council member believes that the grievance has merit, the Executive Council member may elect to act to correct the matter or may refer the matter to a committee. If a committee is formed, it will be composed of one student and two faculty members who are unbiased in the matter. All information pertaining to the incident is turned over to this committee.
The committee holds a hearing, takes a statement from all interested parties and sends a memorandum to the Executive Council member of its findings and recommendations. The Executive Council decides what action will be taken based on these recommendations.
If you believe that you have not had a fair hearing, you may appeal to the university’s president to initiate a review of the grievance procedure.

If you believe that the behavior was based on race, color, sex/gender, disability, religion, national or ethnic origin, or sexual misconduct the Title IX coordinator or his or her designee will review with you the informal and formal grievance processes applicable to faculty and staff.

    I. Drug and Alcohol Abuse Program
In accordance with “Drug-Free Schools and Campuses,” authorized by section 1213 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA), as amended by the Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act
Amendments of 1989, it is incumbent upon Capitol Tech to outline to all students the following program, as implemented, to prevent the use of illicit drugs and the abuse of alcohol by students at Capitol Tech.
No institution of high
er education shall be eligible to receive funds or any other form of financial assistance under any federal program, including participation in any federally funded or guaranteed student loan program, unless it certifies to the secretary of education that it has adopted and implemented such a program.

Capitol Tech has standards of conduct that clearly prohibit the unlawful possession, use or distribution of drugs and alcohol by students and employees on university property or as any part of the university’s activities, and it will impose sanctions for violations of such, up to and including expulsion or termination of employment and referral for prosecution.

State of Maryland and United States Penalties and Sanctions
    A. Alcohol Beverages Offenses
        1. 400 Misrepresentation of age to obtain alcoholic beverages from licensed seller
            a. It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to knowingly and willfully make any misrepresentation or false statement as to the person’s age and,
by reason of the misrepresentation or false statement, obtain any alcoholic beverages from any person licensed to sell alcoholic beverages under the laws of this State (1982, ch. 844; 1987, ch. 11, section 1; 1988, ch. 6, section 1; ch.
367; 1989, ch. 288, section 1; ch. 289, section 1)400A Possession of alcoholic beverages by person under age 21 It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to have in his possession, or under his charge or control, any alcoholic beverages, unless the person is a bona fide employee of the license holder, as defined in Article 2B, and has in his possession, or under his charge or control, alcoholic beverages during regular working hours and in the course of his employment. (1982, ch. 844; 1987, ch. 11, section 1; 1988, ch. 6, section 1; ch.
367.)
        2. 401 Obtaining alcoholic beverages for consumption by person under age 21

            a. It is unlawful for any person to obtain any alcoholic beverages from any person, licensed to sell alcohol beverages for consumption by any person less than 21 years of age, knowing that the person is under 21 years of age. (1982, ch. 844, ch. 6, section 1; ch. 367)
            b. 401A Furnishing alcoholic beverages for consumption to person known to be under age 21 In general - Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, a person may not furnish any alcoholic beverage to another person if: The person furnishing the beverage knows that the person is under 21 years of age; and the alcoholic beverage is furnished for the purpose of consumption by the person less than 21 years of age.
        3. Exceptions—The prohibition in subsection (a) of this section does not apply if the
individual furnishing the alcoholic beverage and the individual to whom the beverage is served: Are members of the same immediate family, and the beverage is furnished and consumed in a private residence; or Are participants in a religious ceremony (1988, ch. 403; 1989, ch. 221)

            a. 402 Misrepresentation of age to induce sale of alcoholic beverages: It is unlawful for any person to knowingly, willfully, or falsely represent the age of any person to any licensed innkeeper, restaurant keeper, or other person engaged
in the sale of alcoholic beverages for the purpose of inducing that person to illegally sell or furnish any alcoholic beverages to any person (1982, ch. 844; 1988, ch. 367)
            b. 403 Misrepresentation of age to procure or to have beer, light wine or alcoholic beverages furnished: It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years
to knowingly and falsely represent himself or herself to be at least 21 years old to any licensed innkeeper or other person engaged in the sale of alcoholic
beverages for the purpose of procuring or having him, but sale, gift, or otherwise, any beer or light wine or any alcoholic beverages (1982, ch. 844; 1988, ch. 6, section 1; ch. 367)
        4. 403A Citation
            a. Person under 18—Any person under the age of 18 years who violates the provision of this subheading shall be issued a citation by a police officer authorized to make arrests and shall be subject to the procedures and dispositions provided in Subtitle 8 of Title 3 of the Courts and Judicial Proceedings Article.
            b. Person 18 or older—Any person 18 years or older who violates the provisions of this subheading shall be issued a citation and be subject to the provisions of section 403B of this subheading (1988, chs. 571, 572)

        5. 403B Disposition of violation
            a. Amount of fine—If a person is found by the District Court to have committed a Code violation, that person shall be required to pay a fine in an amount not to exceed $500.

If the violation is a repeat offense, that person shall be required to pay a fine in an amount not to exceed $1000.

The person shall be liable for the costs of the proceedings in the District Court. Court costs - The court costs in a Code violation case in which costs are imposed are $5. A defendant is liable for payment to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Fund (1988, ch. 6, section 1; ch. 571, 572)
    B. Annual Security Report
The Student Right-to-Know and Campus Security Act, (Public Law 101-542) requires colleges and universities to report the following: (1) an annual campus security report to include crime
prevention issues and sex offense policies (2) statistics on the number of specified crimes (murder, forcible or nonforcible sex offenses including rape, robbery, aggravated assault, burglary and motor vehicle theft) and the number of arrests for liquor law violations and weapons possessions, which have occurred on campus or been reported to local police authorities.

Crime statistics are collected electronically by the Department of Education and published at the following website: http://ope.ed.gov/SECURITY/instDetail.asp?UNITID=162061

        1. Policies regarding procedures for students and others to report criminal actions or other emergencies occurring on campus.

Emergencies requiring police, fire or medical aid can be reported in person or by dialing 911 from any phone on campus. Telephones located on the campus (private or public) are tied to the 911 emergency system. In order to report a crime or public safety emergency, contact the campus security staff at 301-938-2928 every day of the week. Security patrols the campus and often is posted at the entrance of the campus by the residence hall in the guard booth. Residential life staff can be reached by anytime at 301-655-2116 for incidents that occur in the residence halls.

In response to a call or report, a security guard or staff member will take the necessary action, which can include calling 911, gathering staff members, or contacting the Prince George’s County police or fire department. After any initial emergency or immediate response is concluded, the staff member involved must complete an incident report and provide it to the director of student life and
residential services. The director of student life can file the report for informational purposes, including inclusion in the annual security report, or can initiate campus conduct proceedings based on the report.

For the purpose of providing timely warnings to the campus community, occurrences of murder and non-negligent manslaughter, negligent manslaughter, forcible sex offenses, nonforcible sex offenses, robbery, aggravated assault, burglary, motor vehicle theft, arson and arrests for liquor law violations, drug law violations and illegal weapons possession should be reported to Melinda Bunnell-Rhyne, Vice President of Student Engagement and University Development; security; and the Assistant Director of Student Life and Residential Services.

The Office of Student Life is responsible for the timely warning of the campus community of occurrences of murder and non-negligent manslaughter, negligent manslaughter, forcible sex offenses, nonforcible sex offenses, robbery, aggravated assault, burglary, motor vehicle theft, arson and arrests for liquor law violations, drug law violations and illegal weapons possession. In the event that such an offense is alleged to have occurred on campus, the Vice President of Student Engagement and University Development or her designee will use the campus email system, campus mail system and fliers to notify campus of the alleged occurrence. If there is reason to believe there is an ongoing and immediate threat to the campus community the text notification system, Business Notifier, will be used to notify registered users.
The Vice President of Student Engagement and University Development is responsible for the compilation of the annual security report. The Vice President of Student Engagement and University Development maintains a log tracking the number of reported occurrences of murder and non-negligent manslaughter, negligent manslaughter, forcible sex offenses, nonforcible sex offenses, robbery, aggravated assault, burglary, motor vehicle theft, arson and arrests for liquor law
violations, drug law violations and illegal weapons possession. The Vice President of Student Engagement and University Development also works closely with Prince George’s County Police Department to provide statistics based on reports made to
the local police and arrests made on campus. The final report is reviewed and revised
by the President’s Council and distributed to the campus community.

A report of a criminal offense should be made to at least one of the following: AVP of student engagement; security; and the director of student life and residential services; director of human resources.

Victims or witnesses may make a confidential report of a crime for inclusion in the annual disclosure of crime statistics by submitting Confidential Crime Report Form. This form is available on the Student Life tab of MyCapitol and hardcopies are available in the Office of Student Life and outside of the Office of Registration and Records. The university will investigate all reports of crimes which occurred on campus or in university-controlled locations. However, no effort will be made to determine the identity of any individual who made the confidential report. Without
identifying information from the victim or witness the investigation is expected to be substantially impeded.

    B. Policies concerning the security of and access to campus facilities, including campus residences, and security considerations used in the maintenance of campus facilities.

Capitol Tech is a very open campus that provides easy access to and from its buildings. Most buildings are open to members of the campus community during normal business hours, 7:30
a.m. to 10:30 p.m., Monday through Thursday. On Friday and Saturday, buildings are open for classes from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Capitol Tech’s campus residence houses 220 students. All residents are issued a fob to the apartment and a key to their room. Students are advised not to give their keys to other individuals and the improper use of keys is a violation of campus policy. It is against university policy to leave guests unattended in the residence hall, and all guests to Innovator’s Hall must sign in with the resident assistant on duty, or submit a Guest Notification Form via MyCapitol.

Capitol Tech maintains a strong commitment to the safety and security of its campus. The campus is designed to promote safety and reduce criminal opportunity. Every effort is made to ensure that campus buildings, facilities and grounds are well maintained and safe. By maintaining adequate exterior lighting in parking lots and on pedestrian walkways, the college strives to enhance the safety of its campus.

Campus safety is greatly enhanced by the services of the Capitol Tech Facilities Department,
which regularly surveys facilities and submits recommendations concerning security deficiencies such as defective locks on doors, open windows and lighting malfunctions. Members of the campus community are encouraged to report any deficiencies in lighting to the Facilities.
An unarmed security officer is on duty at the campus 24 hours a day, providing escort services at the request of students. This officer secures the main building at 11 p.m. checking all rooms and offices and locking all inside and outside doors. The security officer then patrols the campus on foot and continues these patrols once every half hour. When not patrolling the campus, the officer is stationed in the library from 5pm to 10pm, otherwise in a security booth at the entrance to the campus next to the residence hall. The phone numbers for security and the residence life staff are posted in each apartment.

    C. Policies concerning campus law enforcement
Because of the size of the student body (about 700 Graduate and Doctoral Students and 260 Undergraduate), the small number of administrators, faculty and staff (55), the relatively isolated campus site and a virtually crime-free history, there has been no need for a full-security force at Capitol Tech. The university is sensitive to the safety needs of its students and employees and has worked with the county police to institute security policies that are best suited to this institution.

Capitol Tech employs a security firm to patrol the campus. These individuals enforce Capitol Tech’s policies regarding student conduct on campus and ensure that the academic buildings are locked and secure at the end of the day. In addition, the resident assistants receive
comprehensive training as part of the conditions of their employment. One module of this training includes dealing with crisis and the appropriate method for reporting safety and security violations. The professional staff from the office of student life is on call to the resident assistants should they need assistance in assessing any situation. Capitol Tech does not employ anyone with the authority to arrest individuals participating in criminal action. Capitol Tech’s security officers, resident assistants, or director of student life and residential services report any crimes committed against the university and encourage students to report any crimes committed
against an individual to the Prince George’s County Police Department. There are currently no memorandum of understandings between the university and local law enforcement regarding the investigation of crimes. Capitol Tech will pursue crimes as violations of the Code of Community Standards and will encourage students to report crimes to local law enforcement.
Capitol Tech does not provide pastoral or professional counseling; therefore, there are no policies in place directing such individuals to advise students of the procedures to voluntary and confidentially report crimes.

    D. A description of the type and frequency of programs designed to inform students and employees about campus security procedures and practices and to encourage students and employees to be responsible for their own security and the security of others.
Capitol Tech provides personal safety training, as well as, training related to responding to significant life-threatening events which may occur on campus to students during Orientation each Fall. New faculty and staff employees participate in training related to campus safety and the response to significant life-threatening events which may occur on campus shortly after their employment begins.
    E. A description of programs designed to inform students and employees about the prevention of crimes.
Each year during the residence hall meeting, resident assistants encourage residents to lock their doors at all times. The residence life staff discusses the potential loss of property and issues of personal safety, which can be prevented by simply locking all doors at all times and limiting key usage to those individuals who live in the apartment or room. Each year the residence life staff uses passive programming such as fliers and random checks to reinforce the importance of locking doors. Additionally, each year during time periods that traditionally coincide with higher incidents of crime, memos and email are used to remind students, faculty and staff to be aware

of the potential for crime and how to take responsibility for their own safety and security. Finally, during orientation and student leader training workshops on bystander intervention are presented to increase student confidence for intervening prior to the occurrence of crimes or conflict.

    F. A statement of policy concerning the monitoring and recording through local police agencies of criminal activity by students at non-campus locations of student organizations officially recognized by the institution, including student organizations with non-campus housing facilities.
There are no officially recognized student organizations at off-campus locations.

    G. A statement of policy regarding the possession, use, and sale of illegal drugs and enforcement of Federal and State drug laws.
The student conduct code of Capitol Tech considers any violation of state liquor laws to be a violation of campus policy. See page 62 of the student handbook. All reported violations of campus policy are referred to the director of student life and residential services for disciplinary referral.

    H. A statement of policy regarding the possession, use, and sale of illegal drugs and enforcement of Federal and State drug laws.
The student conduct code of Capitol Tech considers any violation of federal and state drug laws to be a violation of campus policy. See page 62 of the student handbook.
All reported violations of campus policy are referred to the director of student life for disciplinary referral.

    I. A description of any drug or alcohol-abuse education programs, as required under 120
(a) through (d) of the HEA, otherwise known as the Drug-Free Schools and Communities act of 1989.

Capitol Tech provides each employee and student with information regarding drug and alcohol abuse. This information includes the annual distribution of a document that states the college’s drug and alcohol policy as stated above, a description of legal sanctions for the unlawful possession or distribution of illicit drugs and alcohol, a description of health risks associated with drug and alcohol abuse, a description of counseling and treatment options. In addition, the following statement is included:
“Capitol Tech has standards of conduct that clearly prohibit the unlawful possession, use, or distribution of drugs and alcohol by students and employees on college property or as any part of the college’s activities, and will impose sanctions for violations of such, up to and including expulsion or termination of employment and referral for prosecution.”

All incoming campus students are required to participate in an opioid awareness and addiction prevention program. This program is provided in person during orientation. All incoming distance learners are provided with information regarding opioid awareness and addiction prevention.

    J. A statement advising the campus community where law enforcement agency information provided by a state under section 121 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 concerning registered sex offenders may be obtained.
The state of Maryland maintains a Sex Offender Registry which can be searched at this URL http:// www.dpscs.state.md.us/sorSearch/.

    K. A statement of policy regarding emergency response and evacuation procedures.
An evacuation is defined as the emptying of an occupied area and the transference of its occupants to a safe location. An evacuation is implemented under conditions when it is no longer safe for students, employees and visitors to remain in a building or a specific area in a building.
This situation requires occupants to move out and away from a building to a designated building, area of refuge, or out and away from specific areas within a building. An evacuation is commonly used when there is a suspected fire, hazardous material spill in a building. Evacuation procedures may also be used if the decision is made to evacuate after a Bomb Threat has been made.

    L. A statement of policy regarding missing student notification procedures
The Guide to Residence Life encourages residents to report when they have not seen their roommate or apartment mate for an extended period of time. Residents report their concern about a potentially missing student to the Residence Life Staff. When the Residence Life Staff receives this type of report they will begin a process of trying to confirm the student’s whereabouts and/
or safety. The Residence Life Staff will work to confirm with friends of the resident their location, will use social media and electronic communications to connect with the resident, will attempt to reach the student by phone or ideally make face to face contact. If Residence Life Staff is unable to confirm the resident’s whereabouts and/or safety in 6 hours or exhausted options for finding the resident in fewer than 6 hours they will contact the on call professional staff member. The professional on call will contact either the Missing Person Contact for resident students or an emergency contact for non-resident students or law enforcement. If the missing person contact or emergency contact is unable to verify the student’s whereabouts law enforcement will be contacted to file a missing persons report.

    M. A statement of policy regarding disclosure of results of disciplinary proceedings
The alleged victim of a crime of violence or a non-forcible sex offense or the alleged victim’s
surviving family may submit a written request for the disclosure of the results of any disciplinary proceeding related to the alleged crime or offense conducted by the University against a student who is the alleged perpetrator of such crime or offense.
In cases of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault or stalking the alleged violation(s) will be classified as a Community Standards Matter including Victimization. The conduct facilitator will notify both the respondent and complainant in writing of the panel’s decision
and the sanctions when matters are classified as a Community Standards Matter including
Victimization. No written request for results will be necessary.
Disciplinary proceedings which do not meet either of the above policies will result in the disclosure of the results to the respondent and members of the faculty and staff who need to know the results in order to complete their duties.

    N. A description of on-campus housing fire safety systems
Capitol Tech’s campus residence has apartment-style living. Each hallway has fire pulls in the kitchen near the front door, which residents are encouraged to use in the event of a fire. Each apartment is equipped with smoke detectors. Fire pulls and smoke detectors are on a system that is monitored by an off-campus vendor. The monitoring service alerts the local fire department in the event of an alarm. Fire pulls and smoke detector alarms are audible within the building the alerted alarm is in. Each apartment is outfitted with a sprinkler system. Each apartment has a fire extinguisher in the kitchen near the front door.