The Student’s Guide to Using the Website Portal
Where to Find myCapitol

myCapitol is located at https://mycapitol.CapTechU.edu and can be accessed by going to the Capitol
Technology University website www.CapTechU.edu, mousing over the three lines (hamburger patty)
in the top right corner, selecting current students button, and select myCapitol button.

Navigating the Portal

There are tabs across the top of the site that have been assigned based on your role as a student at
Capitol Technology University. Each tab has access to different features and information you may be
interested in using or accessing. Each tab has a group of subpages listed on the left hand side of the
page in red. These will help you to find portlets that contain the information or services. You will also
notice that the Tab farthest to the right is called MyPages which you can modify to display the portlets
you use most frequently.

Home Tab

This tab is a basic overview of your current relationship with the university. The home tab will display
announcements relevant to you, the university calendar, a task manager which you can use to track your
activities, a portlet for your student schedule and a portlet for your account from which you can access
your balance and a printable course and fee statement. You can also make a payment and access MyFA
(Financial Aid Awards information) in this area.

Student Tab

This tab provides access to more detailed information regarding your academic career, financial aid and
finances with Capitol Technology University.
Home
This subpage provides a more detailed overview of your registration and academic experience with the
college. The Academic Information portlet lists your official advisors, degree and program. You will
see your schedule for the current semester and by clicking on view details you can change the semester
and see your schedule for any future semester for which you have registered. You have the ability to
view your midterm or final grade report for recent semesters for which grades have been submitted and
you may print this report. The unofficial transcript portlet allows you to view and print an unofficial
transcript of your course work at Capitol Technology University. The course search portlet allows you to
add and drop courses for semesters where registration or drop period is currently open and search for
courses being offered during semesters for which a schedule has been created and made public. The
portlets on the right contain instructions for submitting forms and a number of commonly used forms are
in pdf format for your use.
Financial Aid
This subpage provides information regarding records in the financial aid office. You will find links to
helpful webpages as well. A link to MyFA is on this page as well. The MyFA portal allows students to
review, accept, and decline their financial aid 24 hours a day from any location. MyFA is used in
addition to all award letters and missing information letters. Students will be emailed and mailed a
notification when it is time to accept their aid and when missing information is required. Once granted
access to MyCapitol, students will not need an additional login to use this service. Once granted access
to MyCapitol, if you are not able to access the MyFA portal please contact the Office of Financial Aid

immediately. Students using this service will be able to:Review budgets and awards by term/year; View
scholarships and grants; Accept, decline or reduce loans; Review and retrieve missing documents.
Student Finances
This subpage provides information regarding your account balance, statements and tax records. The
1098T portlet allows you to view this information to assist in the preparation of your taxes. The my
account portlet allows you to access your balance, make a payment and view or print a course and fee
statement.
Advising
The degree audit portlet will allow you to view and print information showing which degree
requirements you have completed and search for courses that will fulfill your unmet requirements. The
majors and what if scenarios portlet allows you to view what courses you have completed that would be
applied to a new degree should you be considering changing programs. The course needs portlet will
show you which requirements need to be completed. The advisor meetings portlet will display any
meetings you have scheduled with an advisor and notes associated with that meeting.
Online Registration
This subpage allows you to search available schedules, as well as, register, add or drop courses for the
current semester/term or any available future semester/term. By clicking on the add/drop courses link in
the course schedules portlet you may modify your schedule provided you are within the proper
timeframe for adding or dropping for the semester.

Student Life Tab

This tab provides access to virtual group creation and membership as well as a calendar of campus
activities. The student groups portlet at the bottom of the page allows students to join a student group or
create and request space within the portal to support a student organization.

MyPages Tab

This tab allows you to modify the content to contain a calendar and task list specific to you, as well as,
the portlets you use most often. To add useful portlets to this page click on the edit page link at the top
right, use the content tab to view current portlets and add portlets to this page. The layout tab will allow
you to modify the look of your page. To add events to your calendar click the add event link in the
portlet, you may also subscribe to other calendars by clicking on the MyCalendar link and choosing the
Browse Shared Calendars link on the left. If you do create a personal calendar we recommend you not
allow others to share this calendar by leaving that box unchecked.

Getting Help with MyCapitol

Forgotten password – use the I forgot my password link and a new password will be sent to your Capitol
Technology University email account, your old password will no longer work and you should change
the password when you login next time.
Lost in the Portal – if you are not finding what you are looking for contact the College Advisor or the
Office of Registration and Records by phone for assistance.
Error Messages or Unexpected Responses – contact mycapitol@CapTechU.edu for assistance.