CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY
2022 - 2023 CATALOG
General Information

General Information
Directory
Capitol Technology University
11301 Springfield Road
Laurel, MD 20708-9758
Main Telephone Numbers
301-369-2800
888-522-7486

Admissions
Washington, DC 301-953-3200
Toll Free 800-950-1992
Fax 301-369-2326
Online Learning 866-960-9620
Undergraduate Admissions admissions@CapTechU.edu
Graduate Admissions gradadmit@CapTechU.edu
Website www.CapTechU.edu
Office Hours
The following offices are open Monday – Friday 8:30 a.m.– 5:00 p.m.
Executive Council
President
Vice President of Academic Affairs
Vice President of Student Engagement and University Development
Senior Vice President of Enrollment Management and Marketing
Vice President of Human Resources and Risk Management
Vice President of Facilities Management and Professional Development
Vice President of Finance and Administration
Office of the Dean
Academic Dean
Career Services
Communications and Publications
Human Resources
The following offices are open.
Admissions
Monday and Friday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.; Tuesday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:30 p.m.
After hours by appointment.
6 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Online Learning
Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 10:00 p.m; Friday 8:30 a.m. – 10:00 p.m.

Emergency Closing
In the event of severe weather or other emergencies, cancellations or late openings
will be announced to area radio and television broadcasts and posted on the university
website.
The university maintains a recorded message at 301-369-2800 and 888-522-7486,
and posts a weather advisory on the website when possible. Due to power outages
and other circumstances that occur during adverse weather, it is not always possible
to update this information. It is the responsibility of students to tune in to the radio or
television for announcements.

Accreditation
Capitol Technology University is authorized by the State of Maryland (through
the Maryland Higher Education Commission, 1007 North Orange Street 4th Floor,
MB #166 Wilmington, DE 19801) to confer Bachelor of Science (B.S.) degrees in
Astronautical Engineering, Aviation Professional Pilot, Computer Engineering, Computer
Engineering Technology, Computer Science, Construction Information Technology
and Cybersecurity, Construction Management and Critical Infrastructure, Occupational
Safety and Health, Counterterrorism, Cyber Analytics, Cybersecurity, Data Science,
Electrical Engineering, Electronics Engineering Technology, Engineering Technology,
eSports Management, Facilities Management and Critical Infrastructure, Healthcare
Administration and Systems Security, Information Technology, Intelligence and Global
Security, Management of Cyber and Information Technology, Mechatronics Engineering,
Mechatronics and Robotics Engineering Technology, Military Technical Management,
Professional Trades Administration, Software Engineering, Technology and Business
Management, and Unmanned and Autonomous Systems. The University is authorized to
confer Associate in Applied Science (A.A.S.) degrees in Computer and Cyber Operations
Engineering, Engineering Fundamentals.
The University is authorized by the State of Maryland to confer Master of Science
(M.S.) degrees in Aviation, Aviation Cybersecurity, Computer Science, Construction
Cybersecurity, Occupational Safety and Health, Counterterrorism, Critical Infrastructure,
Cyber Analytics, Cybersecurity, Engineering Technology, Healthcare Data Analytics,
Intelligence and Global Security, Product Management, and Unmanned and Autonomous
Systems. The University is authorized by the State of Maryland to confer a Master of
Business Administration (M.B.A.) degree. The University is authorized by the State of
Maryland to confer Master of Research (M.Res.) degrees in Astronautical Engineering,

7 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Information

Business Office, Financial Aid, Registration and Records, Student Life
Monday – Friday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.

The University is also authorized by the State of Maryland to confer a Doctor of
Business Administration (D.B.A.) in Supply Chain Management, Doctor of Science
(D.Sc.) in Cybersecurity, Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Educational Data Analytics, and
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees in Aeronautical Science, Artificial Intelligence,
Astronautical Engineering, Business Analytics and Data Sciences, Computer Science,
Counterterrorism, Construction Science, Critical Infrastructure, Cyberpsychology,
Cybersecurity Leadership, Emergency and Protective Services, Engineering
Management, Facilities Management, Financial Cybersecurity, Healthcare Cybersecurity,
Human Factors, Industrial Hygiene, Intelligence and Global Security, Manufacturing,
Military Leadership, Occupational Health and Safety, Occupational Risk Management,
Product Management, Quantum Computing, Real Estate Management, Space
Cybersecurity, Space Operations, Systems Engineering, Sustainability, Technology,
and Unmanned Systems Applications. The University is authorized by the State of
Maryland to confer a combined Master of Science (M.S.) in Research Methods and
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Technology.
Capitol Technology University is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher
Education, 1007 North Orange Street 4th Floor, MB #166, Wilmington, DE 19801, www.
msche.org . The Middle States Commission on Higher Education is an institutional
accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education and the Council for
Higher Education Accreditation.
Several degrees offered by Capitol Technology University have received the distinction
of being accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology
(ABET) http://www.abet.org.
The following degrees have received accreditation by the Engineering Accreditation
Commission of ABET:
•
•
•

The BS degree in Astronautical Engineering
The BS degree in Computer Engineering
The BS degree in Electrical Engineering

The following degrees have received accreditation by the Engineering Technology
Accreditation Commission of ABET :
• The BS degree in Computer Engineering Technology
• The BS degree in Electronics Engineering Technology
The following degrees have received accreditation by the Computing Accreditation
Commission of ABET:
•
•

The BS degree in Computer Science
The BS degree in Cybersecurity

8 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Information

Aviation Maintenance, Cyberpsychology, and Sustainability. The University is authorized
by the State of Maryland to confer Technical Master of Business Administration
(T.M.B.A.) degrees in Business Analytics and Data Science, and Cybersecurity.

Capitol Technology University actively subscribes to a policy of equal educational and
employment opportunity and, in accordance with Title IX of the education amendments
of 1972, does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, gender
identity or expression, gender orientation, sexual orientation, national or ethnic
origin, genetics, disability, age, or veteran status in admission, treatment of students
or employment. Per Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, the university prohibits
discrimination based on disability.
The following members of the Capitol Technology University community are designated
to receive inquiries concerning the university’s application of the equal opportunities
statement. Inquiries related to the application of Title IX may be referred to the campus
Title IX Coordinator, Melinda Bunnell-Rhyne; the Director of Human Resources and
Risk Management, Connie Harrington; any Vice President of the university; or to the
Department of Education’s Office of Civil Rights.
Melinda Bunnell-Rhyne
Vice President of Student Engagement and University Development
Title IX Coordinator and Section 504 Coordinator
11301 Springfield Rd., Laurel, MD 20708
301-369-2491
deanofstudents@CapTechU.edu
Connie Harrington
Director of Human Resources
Title IX Deputy
11301 Springfield Rd., Laurel, MD 20708
240-965-2465
hr@CapTechU.edu

Changes in Catalog Information
Capitol Technology University reserves the right to make changes in policies,
procedures, degree requirements, schedules, course offerings and other university
standards or announcements to meet circumstances that may arise after publication.
The provisions of this publication are not to be regarded as an irrevocable contract
between the student and Capitol Technology University. The university reserves the right
to change any provision or requirement in any university publication without notice at
any time during the student’s term of attendance.
Capitol Technology University reserves the right to require a student to withdraw, or to
refuse to grant a degree or certificate if, in the judgment of the administration of the
university, the student fails to meet the university’s requirements satisfactorily. The
university reserves the right to change tuition and fees at any time at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees.
9 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Information

Equal Opportunities

The procedures and guidelines adopted by Capitol Technology University (hereinafter
occasionally referred to as the “university”) regarding student records comply fully
with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA). This federal law
establishes the rights of students to inspect and review their records, and provides
students with a mechanism for correcting inaccurate or misleading data found within a
student’s education record.
Moreover, FERPA guarantees the privacy of students’ education records. Specifically,
FERPA limits the disclosure of personally identifiable, non-directory, information from
education records, without the consent of the student. Consistent with its obligations,
Capitol Technology University will not release personally identifiable information from
a student’s education records without the student’s consent, except in circumstances
permitted by FERPA (e.g., in connection with a health or safety emergency).
Education records are records, files, documents and other materials containing
information directly related to a student that are maintained by Capitol Technology
University. For example, records maintained by faculty advisors, the Office of
Admissions, the Office of Financial Aid, the Business Office, the Office of Career
Services, the Office of Student Life, and the Office of Registration and Records, are
generally education records.
Student Review of Education Records
Students are entitled to inspect and review education records maintained by Capitol
Technology University. Students who wish to access a particular record should contact
the office responsible for maintaining that record. The university will produce the
record within a reasonable period of time, although in most instances the university will
allow the student to review the record immediately upon request. Certain documents,
including financial records of parents, are not available to students.
A student who, after reviewing their records, believes they contain information that is
inaccurate, misleading, or in violation of the student’s rights of privacy, may request
that Capitol Technology University amend the record. Students should submit such
requests, in writing, to the official from whom the record was obtained. Alternatively,
students may submit written requests to Melinda Bunnell-Rhyne, Vice President of
Student Engagement and University Development. Capitol Technology University will
decide whether to amend the record, as requested by the student, within a reasonable
time after receiving the request. If Capitol Technology University declines to amend
the record as requested, it will inform the student of its decision. In this instance, the
student is entitled to request a hearing to determine the merits of his or her request.
Students may request copies of their Capitol Technology University education records.
Reproduction of academic transcripts costs $10 per copy. Capitol Technology University
will not copy records for students with unpaid financial obligations.

10 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Information

Student Records

Capitol Technology University will generally not disclose personally identifiable
information contained in a student’s education records without the student’s prior
consent. However, FERPA does allow Capitol Technology University to disclose
such information in certain, limited circumstances. For example, Capitol Technology
University may disclose information in a student’s education records to school officials
within Capitol Technology University whom the university has determined to have a
legitimate educational interest in the information. A school official generally has a
legitimate educational interest if the official needs to review an education record in
order to fulfill his or her professional responsibility. School officials include: professors;
instructors; administrators; health staff; counselors; attorneys; clerical staff; trustees;
members of committees and disciplinary boards; and a contractor, volunteer or other
party to whom the university has outsourced institutional services or functions.
Capitol Technology University may also disclose a student’s directory information
without consent. Directory information includes, but is not limited to, the student’s
name, address, telephone number, electronic mail address, photograph, date and place
of birth, major field of study, grade level/class, enrollment status (e.g., undergraduate
or graduate, full-time or part-time), dates of attendance, participation in officially
recognized activities and sports, degrees, honors, and awards received, and previous
educational agencies or institutions attended.
Students may restrict the release of directory information, except to school officials
with legitimate educational interests. To do so, a student must make a written request
directed to the Office of Registration and Records. Once filed, this request will become
a permanent part of the student’s record until the student instructs the university, in
writing, to remove the request.
Allegations that Capitol Technology University is not in compliance with FERPA may
be directed, in writing, to the Family Policy Compliance Office at the Department of
Education.

The Capitol Technology University Commitment
Capitol Technology University guarantees its qualified bachelor’s degree graduates
placement in the fields of engineering, engineering technology, computer science,
information technology or business with a competitive salary within 90 days
of graduation, or Capitol Technology University will provide up to 36 additional
undergraduate credits tuition-free while students continue their job search.
The Capitol Technology University Commitment is a written job guarantee between
the student and Capitol Technology University. The commitment is open to bachelor’s
degree seeking students (U.S. citizens or permanent residents). Application for
redemption of this waiver must be made within 210 days of degree conferral or
completion.
Contact the Office of Career Services for more information.
11 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Information

Disclosure of Information Contained in Education Records

Laurel Campus
Capitol Technology University occupies the grounds of the former Beltsville Speedway.
Located just off the Baltimore-Washington Parkway, the 52-acre campus is minutes
away from NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, the Beltsville Agricultural Research
Center, the laboratory headquarters of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the
Patuxent Wildlife Research Center, and NSA, Fort Meade.
The lush, suburban campus features a small pond. The sleek white forms of M/ACOM Hall, MCI Hall and Telecommunications Hall are connected by glass-enclosed
pedestrian walkways. The William G. McGowan Academic Center houses interactive
classrooms and the following academic centers: Center for Cybersecurity Research
and Analysis, the Space Operations Institute, Security Operations Center, and the Space
Flight Operations Training Center. The William G. McGowan Academic Center also
houses the following labs: Cyber Lab, Fusion Lab, Identity Credentialing and Access
Management (ICAM) Lab, and the Quantum Computing Lab. The buildings have high
ceilings, skylights and exterior reflective glass walls overlooking the woods. Innovator’s
Hall offers apartment-style housing for up to 220 students.

Mission, Vision and Learning Goals
Motto
Our university motto, Aut viam inveniam aut faciam (Latin), which translates to “Either
Find a Way or Make One,” reflects the tenacity and resourcefulness of our campus
community.

Mission
The mission of Capitol Technology University is to educate individuals for professional
opportunities in engineering, computer and information sciences, and business.
We provide relevant learning experiences that lead to success in the evolving global
community.

Vision
By 2025, in accordance with the Mission Statement, Capitol Technology University will
be seen by its constituents and by the public as:
•

•
•

A STEM-focused institution of higher education, providing undergraduate
and graduate degrees in engineering, information sciences, and technology
leadership, that has flexibility and opportunities to grow, and that adapts
offerings to emerging workforce needs.
A provider of hands-on, career-relevant learning that is conducted in an
interdisciplinary and interactive environment, where faculty and staff support
student achievement and success.
A university that delivers programs of similarly outstanding quality through

12 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Information

Location



Core Values
The core values are the characteristics we embrace in working together to fulfill the
mission and achieve the vision of the institution.


Quality – always striving for continuous improvement
Growth – expanding and changing to meet new needs of society
Leadership – offering creative, supportive and shared leadership
Balance – maintaining a balance between competing needs
Integrity – being honest, ethical and open
Teamwork – exercising collective effort to support students, faculty and staff
Communication –providing timely and useful information
Flexibility – discovering and seizing opportunities
Safety – maintaining awareness and prevention of accidents and threats

Students
Capitol Technology University’s student body mirrors the diversity of American higher
education, which enriches the teaching and learning environment. Motivated high school
graduates come to Capitol Technology University ready for educational experiences that
will expand their career opportunities. Working adults, veterans and transfer students
come to Capitol Technology University to complete undergraduate programs of study
that will enhance their career opportunities. Established professionals come to Capitol
Technology University to expand their skills by earning graduate degrees or participating
in short-term learning experiences.

13 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Information

•

face-to-face and virtual classrooms, and other forms and mixtures of teaching
methods that align with the learning needs of our students.
An organization with faculty and leadership who stimulate and implement
new curricula, research and entrepreneurial activities for the professions we
serve, and that benefit a diverse community of learners.
An organization that is closely linked to its constituency of local, regional and
national partners in business, government, non-profits, and professions that
provide influence for future technology development and policies.
An organization that engages the global community, through educating
international students, coordinating with educators, and supporting
multinational professional associations.
A university that develops graduates with communications, analysis
and critical thinking skills that allow them to be successful in a global
environment and pursue lifelong learning as technical professionals, leaders
and innovators.
A university that prepares graduates for jobs and careers, and that serves
the broader purpose of education to address national needs-based policies
through scientific consideration.
An organization appropriately sized for quality education and financial
viability, with sustainable assets for faculty and staff to provide a best-value
STEM education.

Capitol Technology University seeks to prepare graduates who demonstrate four
characteristics:
•

Employability- The ability to enter and advance in technical and managerial
careers appropriate to their level and area of study immediately upon graduation.
Communication – Mastery of traditional and technological techniques of
conveying ideas effectively and persuasively.
Preparation of the Mind – The broad intellectual grounding in technical
and general subjects required to embrace future technical and managerial
opportunities with success.
Professionalism – Commitment to lifelong learning, ethical practice and
participation in professions and communities.

The Educational Philosophy of the Academic Programs
Four principles define the educational philosophy of Capitol Technology University.
Academic programs must be:


Grounded in both theory and practice in order to prepare graduates for
immediate employment and long-term professional careers
Fundamentally hands-on and practice-oriented to provide the technical skills
for students to be immediately employable upon graduation,
Tied to the contemporary needs of industry so that curriculum reform and
development are pragmatic, and
Enriched by courses in the liberal arts to provide every graduate with an
enhanced sense of self, society, history and aesthetics.

Strategic Goals
Capitol Technology University has identified four strategic goals that will move the
institution to the next level of excellence and support the vision.
Expand Educational Offerings, Increase Program Completion
Capitol Technology University offers career-relevant curricula with quality learning
outcomes. The strategy includes continuing to expand educational offerings, increasing
program completion, and raising learner qualifications and outcomes.
Increase Enrollment and Institutional Awareness
Capitol will accelerate its goal pursuit to become more globally renowned and locally
active through student, faculty and staff activities. By 2025, enrollment will grow to 650
undergraduates, 350 master’s students, and 250 doctoral candidates.
Improve the Utilization of University Resources and Institutional Effectiveness while
Expanding Revenue
Capitol will likely continue to be 80% financially dependent on student tuition and fees.
The university plans to enhance its resources by expanding the range and amount of

14 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Information

Learning Goals

Increase the Number and Scope of Partnerships
Capitol’s service to our constituents and sources of financial viability both depend upon
participation with continuing and new partner corporations, agencies and schools.

History
Since its start more than 90 years ago, Capitol Technology University has remained
true to its mission: preparing students for careers in a quickly changing world. With a
tradition of academic excellence and practical learning, Capitol Technology University
has equipped its alumni with the knowledge and skills to evolve with the advanced
sophistication of technology.
Capitol Technology University was founded in Washington, DC, as the Capitol Radio
Engineering Institute (CREI), in 1927 by Eugene H. Rietzke. A Navy veteran and radio
operator, Rietzke saw the need for an advanced school that would produce talented
radio and electronics technicians. CREI began as a correspondence school, but its
popularity led to the 1932 opening of a residence division, allowing students to work
hands-on in laboratories. As radio technology improved, new training programs and
courses were quickly added. Following World War II, CREI became one of the first
technical institutes accredited by the Engineers’ Council for Professional Development.
The institute entered a new era in the mid-1950s when it began awarding three-year
Associate of Applied Science degrees. The school expanded its reach to new programs
in applied engineering and electronics. The institute also changed its name to Capitol
Institute of Technology (CIT) in 1964. CIT awarded its first Bachelor of Science
degrees in 1966 to four graduates of its electronics engineering technology program.
Anticipating the need for more room, CIT relocated in 1969 to Kensington, Maryland.
During the following decade, enrollment increased as well as program offerings. In
1976, the Middle States Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools granted
accreditation to Capitol. The National Science Foundation also provided funding for
new instructional scientific equipment. Quickly outgrowing its space, Capitol’s leaders
recognized a need for a permanent home and began searching for a new campus.
In 1980, the college found its home in Laurel, Maryland. Within three years, Capitol
purchased the 52-acre former site of the Beltsville Speedway, built new academic
facilities and opened its doors. The college added two more engineering technology
degrees after experiencing a surge in enrollment. Within the next decade, a
capital campaign and funding from the state of Maryland raised millions for
buildings, equipment and a scholarship endowment. The campus expanded with
Telecommunications Hall and the 340-seat Avrum Gudelsky Memorial Auditorium.
In the late 1980s, Capitol’s leadership again recognized the transformation in the
institution. The technical-based curriculum had become broader by increasing the
number of humanities and social science courses offered. With a spacious campus and
the addition of four-year degrees, the school had shed its skin as a technical institute.
15 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Information

funding from other streams and aligning costs with strategic initiatives.

The period of growth continued in the 1990s. Capitol College began offering master’s
degrees. The college began several outreach efforts and business partnerships, such
as the NASA PREP summer program for minority students and the Maryland Distance
Learning Network. As the 20th century came to a close, the college also expanded the
John G. and Beverly A. Puente Library, creating a spacious state-of-the-art facility with a
multimedia teaching center.
The opening of the William G. McGowan Academic Center in 2005 marked the beginning
of the next era for the college. The academic center expanded the Department of
Computer Science, Space Operations Institute, and the BRAC-funded Cyber Battle Lab.
In 2010, Capitol College launched its first-ever doctoral degree. The doctorate in
information assurance prepared students for leadership roles in the burgeoning
field of cybersecurity. Since the college offered the degree almost exclusively online,
Capitol began accepting doctoral students from across the globe. Four years later, the
institution added its second doctoral degree in management and decision sciences.
The increased growth and diversity of programs led the college to become Capitol
Technology University in 2014. Since then, the University has embarked on a longterm strategic plan of continued expansion, including the addition of new facilities on
campus and increased academic programs. In 2017, Dr. Bradford L. Sims became the
eighth president of Capitol Technology University, inheriting the proud legacy that began
with Eugene H. Rietzke.
As a respected regional leader, Capitol Technology University continues to attract the
attention of government agencies and corporate partners. Through a partnership with
NASA, Capitol offers academic programs in astronautical engineering and practical
training at its Space Operations Institute. The National Security Agency and Department
of Homeland Security have designated the University a National Center of Academic
Excellence in Information Assurance Education, and the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers has named the University one of its 12 educational partners.
Today, Capitol Technology University is the only independent university in Maryland that
specializes in providing a relevant education in engineering, business, and related fields.
The institution takes pride in its proven record of placing graduates in competitive
careers with salaries higher than the industry average. Capitol Technology University
currently offers three associate degrees, 26 bachelor’s degrees, 21 master’s degrees,
and 32 doctoral degrees.

16 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Information

Preferring a title and an environment that would better suit the evolving institution, the
Board of Trustees changed the school’s name to Capitol College. Along with the name
change came a plan to offer more degrees in engineering and management, build
on-campus housing, and convert from a quarterly academic calendar to a semester
system.

Center of Cybersecurity Research and Analysis (CCRA)
The Center for Cybersecurity Research and Analysis serves as the university hub for
training, research, analysis, and programming in all things cybersecurity. Learn to defeat
simulated cyberattacks, land an internship where you can put your skills to work and
prepare for the workforce, publish a scholarly article addressing an existing challenge
in the field, and much more. Students–both on-ground and online–faculty, alumni, and
community partners alike are welcome.
As one of the first schools in the nation to be designated a National Center of
Excellence in Cyber Defense by the Department of Homeland Security and National
Security Agency, Capitol Technology University stands ready to advance the field and do
its part to combat one of the nation’s greatest challenges.

Space Flight Operations Training Center (SFOTC)
The SFOTC, formerly the Space Operations Institute (SOI), was established at Capitol
in 2003 with a grant from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA).
The SOI provides support for educational programs that prepare students for careers
in the aerospace industry. Through the SOI and its resources, students gain experience
in satellite mission operations and planning, and in developing and operating a
picosatellite ground system.
In 2017, the Space Flight Operations Training Center (SFOTC) was established as part
of the SOI, with sponsorship from the Hammers Company. This unique resource utilizes
state-of-the-art flight simulation and telemetry software, enabling students to gain
hands-on training in real time.
Students enrolled at Capitol may apply for an industry sponsored or internal university
SOI internship. Industry sponsored student interns work at NASA, the employer’s facility,
or on campus. The SOI interns have worked on the James Webb Telescope at the Space
Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore, Maryland among other missions.

STEM Outreach Center
The STEM Outreach Center provides hands-on education and workforce development
experiences for students in secondary and post-secondary schools and those who
support them in achieving leadership careers in science, technology, engineering and
math (STEM) fields.
The Center seeks to educate and develop the future leaders of STEM career fields
through utilizing space science, astronomy and other related areas of study at Capitol
Technology University to engage students.
Working at the local, regional, and national levels, the Center will:
1. provide hands-on educational experiences for middle school, high school,

17 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Information

The Centers of Excellence

Security Operations Center
The Security Operations Center (SOC) is the facility that houses the university’s
information security team responsible for monitoring and analyzing Capitol Tech’s
security posture on an ongoing basis. The SOC team’s goal is to detect, analyze, and
respond to cybersecurity incidents using a combination of technology solutions and a
strong set of processes.

Critical Infrastructure Center
Capitol Technology University is the first university to educate students in degree areas
combining operations training of critical infrastructure facilities; critical information
technology (IT) and operational technology (OT) which can be vulnerable to cyber
attacks, especially when coupled; the industrial internet of things (IIOT); and the
cybersecurity needed to protect these facilities. The Critical Infrastructure Center (CIC)
is Capitol Tech’s hub of Critical Infrastructure (CI) and CI education.

Affiliations, Memberships and Partnerships
ACE Mentor Program
The ACE Mentor Program of America, Inc. (ACE) helps mentor high school students
and inspires them to pursue careers in design and construction. Capitol provides
scholarships for ACE students.
Air University-Associate to Baccalaureate Cooperative (AU-ABC)
The AU-ABC directs Airmen with associate in applied science degrees from the
Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) to accredited “military friendly” colleges and
universities for completing a four-year degree. The program maximizes the application
of military career education and training.
Chesapeake Lighthouse Foundation
To promote access and opportunity for Chesapeake Lighthouse Foundation students,
Capitol Tech offers scholarships to any graduate of a Chesapeake Lighthouse
Foundation high school for full-time attendance at Capitol Tech in an on ground
academic program.
City of Alexandria
Capitol Tech and the City of Alexandria have established a partnership in support of the
training and education needs of the City of Alexandria employees. City of Alexandria
employees receive a tuition discount.

18 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Information

community college and college students to both introduce them to STEM fields
and continue to expand their interest in these fields as possible career choices
and
2. support the dissemination of information regarding STEM workforce and
leadership opportunities.

The Cyber Security Forum Initiative (CSFI) mission is to provide cyber warfare
awareness, guidance, and security solutions through collaboration, education, volunteer
work and training to assist the U.S. Government, U.S. Military, commercial interest, and
international partners.
First Generation College Bound
Since its start in 1990, First Generation College Bound has held after-school homework
clubs at Capitol to help teens become the first in their families to attend college.
FIRST Robotics Competition
Annually, Capitol annually hosts the Chesapeake Regional remote kickoff for the
international robotics contest. FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and
Technology) strives to inspire high school students to be part of the nation’s next
generation of scientists, engineers, researchers and technicians. Capitol provides
scholarships for FIRST students.
Fort Meade Alliance
As a part of the Fort Meade Alliance, Capitol works together with business and
community leaders to promote and support Fort George G. Meade.
Future Kings
Future Kings is an after-school program for young men in under-served communities
to explore career opportunities in STEM. To promote access and opportunity for Future
Kings participants, Capitol Tech offers scholarships to any Future Kings participant for
full-time attendance at Capitol Tech in an on ground academic program.
ICIT
The Institute for Critical Infrastructure Technology (ICIT) is the nation’s leading
cybersecurity think tank. ICIT programs and initiatives support cybersecurity leaders
and practitioners in all 16 critical infrastructure sectors.
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
Capitol is a participating university partner with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers. Master’s students who hold full or graduate student membership in IEEE
at the time of registration will receive a 10 percent discount on tuition charges upon
verification.
Maryland MESA
Maryland MESA (Mathematics Engineering Science Achievement) prepares K-12
students for academic and professional careers in mathematics, engineering, science
and technology.
Maryland National Guard
Capitol has established a partnership with the Maryland National Guard that allows

19 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Information

CSFI

Maryland Space Grant Consortium (MDSGC)
The MDSGC, part of NASA’s National Space Grant College and Fellowship Program,
contributes to the nation’s science enterprise by funding research, education, and public
service projects through a national network of 52 college-based Space Grant consortia.
NAEMSE
Capitol Tech and the National Association of EMS Educators (NAEMSE) have
established a partnership in support of the training and education needs of the NAEMSE
members. NAEMSE members receive a tuition discount.
National Cryptologic University (NCU)
Capitol established a partnership with the NSA’s National Cryptologic University to
provide National Security Agency employees and Department of Defense partners
with the opportunity to transfer NCS credits toward completing their degree at Capitol.
Degrees applicable to this program include bachelor’s, master’s and doctorate.
National CyberWatch Center
Capitol is a member of the National CyberWatch Center, an Advanced Technological
Education Center funded by a grant from the National Science Foundation. The center,
founded in 2005 as a consortium for ten institutions in the DC metro area, has grown
to 95 member institutions across 29 states and the District of Columbia. The National
CyberWatch Center’s mission is to increase the quantity and quality of the cybersecurity
workforce through increased education, curriculum development, faculty development,
student development, career pathway exploration and development and public
awareness.
National Defense University
Capitol has partnered with the National Defense University iCollege (formerly
Information Resource Management College) to advance the professional skills
and knowledge of active-duty military, veterans and select Department of Defense
employees. This arrangement provides an opportunity for military and DoD students
who have completed selected NDU programs to transfer up to 15 credits in lieu of
Capitol Technology University graduate coursework.
National Security Agency and Department of Homeland Security
Capitol is designated by the National Security Agency and the Department of Homeland
Security as a Center of Academic Excellence (Cyber-Defense). The Center of Academic
Excellence program is intended to reduce vulnerabilities in the national information
infrastructure by promoting higher education in IA, and producing a growing number of
professionals with cybersecurity expertise in various disciplines. University applicants
are assessed against published criteria intended to measure depth and maturity of

20 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Information

guard members to take up to 12 credit hours per academic year at one-half the full
tuition cost. Capitol is the only institution that offers members such a substantial
discount on master’s and undergraduate programs.

National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
Active at the regional and national levels, NSBE’s mission is to encourage minorities to
pursue engineering and technical-related degrees at undergraduate and graduate levels.
NSBE offers free tutoring for members and service to the college and community.
NISOD
Capitol Tech, has a partnership with National Institute of Staff and Organizational
Development to provide support of the educational needs of the NISOD members.
NISOD members receive a tuition discount.
PTSA
Capitol Tech and the Public Safety Technology Alliance have established a partnership
in support of the training and education needs of PTSA employees and to explore
opportunities to market public safety technology trends and issues. PTSA employees
receive a tuition discount.
ROTC
Capitol, in collaboration with the University of Maryland, College Park (UMCP), offers
perspective and current students the opportunity to participate in UMCP’s ARMY ROTC
Program.
Society of Women Engineers
SWE is the largest nonprofit educational and service organization representing student
and professional women in engineering and technical fields. Its mission is to stimulate
women to achieve full potential in careers as engineers and leaders, expand the image
of the engineering profession as a positive force in improving the quality of life and
demonstrate the value of diversity.
SAME
Capitol Tech has a partnership with Society of American Military Engineers (SAME) to
promote and provide education and professional development for SAME members.
SAME members receive a tuition discount for courses.
TARC
Team America Rocketry Challenge (TARC) is the world’s largest student rocket contest.
Nearly 5,000 students from across the nation compete each year. Capitol provides
scholarships for TARC students.
Partner Institutions
Capitol Technology University has collaborated with numerous state and regional
colleges to provide transfer agreements in certain degree fields. These colleges include

21 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Information

programs in IA. The criteria are specified in courseware training standards issued by
the Committee on National Security Systems (CNSS). Capitol received its initial CAE
designation in 2003 and has been re-designated three times.

International Partner Institutions
AAB College, Pristina, Kosovo; Catholic University Institute of Buea (CUIB), Buea,
Cameroon; College or Economics and Computer Science, Krakow, Poland; University of
Liberia; and Istanbul Aydın University, Istanbul, Turkey.

Online Learning
Capitol Technology University makes it possible for busy professionals to earn master’s
degrees, doctorates, or technology-related certificates on their own schedule. The
university offers many of its degree programs in a flexible, asynchronous format. Capitol
professors, drawn from the ranks of skilled professionals in their fields, are accessible
and ready to assist students and prospective students with any questions they may have.
Other programs offer the option of a live, virtual classroom format in which students
can interact with their instructor and fellow students in real time. All live classes are
recorded and available for later replay.
All of Capitol’s master’s degree programs are offered entirely online. Our pioneering
doctoral programs in cybersecurity (DSc) and business analytics and data science (PhD)
are primarily online, with an annual residency during which you will work with Capitol
faculty members to shape your research ideas into a finished project. All of our other
doctorate programs are offered in a no-residency, researched-focused modality.
The university also offers a variety of online classes for undergraduates. For
instance, students pursuing a BS degree in business administration, cybersecurity or
management of cyber and information technology have the option of completing their
last two years online.
The following BS degree programs are entirely online
•
•

Construction Information Technology and Cybersecurity
Construction Management and Critical Infrastructure

22 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Information

Anne Arundel Community College, Allegany College of Maryland, Ashworth College,
Augusta Technical College, Baltimore City Community College, Carroll Community
College, Catawba Valley Community College, Central Texas College, Cochise Community
College District, College of Southern Maryland, Columbia Southern University,
Community College of Baltimore County, Delaware Technical Community College,
Delta College, Forsyth Community College, Hagerstown Community College, Harford
Community College, Howard Community College, Middle Georgia State University,
Montgomery College, National Defense University, Northern Virginia Community
College, the National Security Agency (on behalf of the National Cryptologic University),
Notre Dame of Maryland University, Oklahoma City Community College, Prince George’s
Community College, University of Maryland University College, University of New Haven,
Volunteer State Community College, and Washington Adventist University, Washington
International Flight Academy and, Wor-Wic Community College.

Counterterrorism
Cybersecurity
Data Science (Last two years)
Facilities Management and Critical Infrastructure
Healthcare Administration and Systems Security
Intelligence and Global Security
Management of Cyber and Information
Military Technical Management
Professional Trades Administration
Occupational Safety and Health
Technology (Last two years)

Academic Policies
Academic Policies and Procedures
Program Advisors
Degree-seeking students are assigned academic advisors before registration. Students
are encouraged to work closely with advisors in developing their programs of study.
Academic advisors are available for guidance, but each student must assume final
responsibility for conforming to university regulations and curriculum requirements.

Registration Procedures
Detailed registration information is provided before the beginning of each semester.
Registration dates are listed in the university catalog and online. Students must be
in good financial standing with the university to be eligible for registration services.
Registration forms can be obtained and submitted at the Laurel campus or online.
Late registration occurs during the first two weeks of the semester for all semesterlength courses, or between the first and second class meeting for all term-length
courses (both undergraduate and graduate). No term-length course registrations will be
accepted after the second class meeting. The last day to add or drop a class is listed in
the university catalog and online.

Cross-Divisional Registration
Students pursuing an undergraduate degree who wish to enroll in graduate courses
must meet with their department chair and receive approval prior to registration. This
includes concurrent undergraduate students taking graduate level coursework to
meet graduate degree requirements and students substituting graduate courses for
undergraduate degree requirements. Courses taken at the graduate level to satisfy

23 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

Audited Courses
Students who register to audit a course are charged the same tuition as those who
register for credit. The grade of X is awarded at the end of the semester/term and is not
used in computing the cumulative grade point average. Half-time, financial aid students
that change to audit will have part or all of their aid returned to the federal government.
Students receiving VA benefits will not receive payment for audited courses. Any
student receiving financial aid contemplating an audit should contact the Office of
Financial Aid. Once registered for audit, students are not permitted to change to credit
after the first two weeks of the semester. The last day to change from credit to audit is
listed in the university catalog and online.

Independent Study
Independent study in a course will be granted only in the most extraordinary
circumstances. Eligibility for an independent study course will be determined by
a committee comprised of academic department chairs, academic advisors and
academic support staff. If the committee determines that a student is eligible for an
independent study course, the appropriate department chair will assign a professor
and the student will be registered for the course by the Office of Registration and
Records. The assigned professor will organize all course requirements including exams,
homework, lab assignments and research papers in lieu of classroom participation.
Students interested in an independent study course should submit an independent
study request form to the Office of Registration and Records.

Change of Degree Program
Students who want to change degree programs must fill out a change of degree
program form, which may be obtained in the Office of Registration and Records or
online. The student’s new department chair must approve all changes of degree
programs. Students who change their degree program are required to meet all
requirements of the new programs that are in effect at the time of the change. Transfer
credits and courses that have already been completed will be applied toward the new
degree program, where appropriate. Any student receiving financial aid considering a
change of degree should see the Office of Financial Aid. Completed documentation
must be submitted to the Office of Registration and Records after academic department
chair approval.

24 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

undergraduate degree requirements will not be counted toward the graduate level
should the student choose to pursue a graduate degree. Course substitutions will
be necessary for completing graduate credit requirements. Students interested in
cross-divisional registration should submit the appropriate paperwork to the Office of
Registration and Records.

Undergraduate students who are currently enrolled and want to pursue two degrees
(AAS or BS) must have a cumulative GPA (grade point average) of 2.5 or higher. For
a second BS degree, the student must complete a minimum of 150 credits, with a
minimum of 18 credits distinction between majors, of which at least 12 must be
upper-level credits completed at Capitol Technology University. For a second AAS
degree, the student must complete a minimum of 75 credits, with a minimum of nine
credits distinction between majors, of which at least six must be 200-level or above.
Undergraduate students who are currently enrolled in an AAS program and a different
BS program must complete nine credits of distinction between the two degrees.
Graduate students who want to obtain two degrees must complete all the requirements
for both degrees plus a minimum of twelve distinct semester hours of credit. Should
more courses overlap than is approved, the student must take additional courses
to make up the credit requirement. Double-degree-seeking graduate students are
encouraged to consult their department chair for advisement.
All students declaring a second degree must have approval from the new program’s
academic chair designated on the change of degree program form. This form is
available in the Office of Registration and Records or online.

Course Drop
There are two course drop periods. The first course drop period occurs during the
registration period and ends on the last day for a 25% refund. The second course drop
period occurs following the period for 25% refund and continues until the date indicated
on the academic calendar.
For a course drop that takes place during the first period, students are entitled to a
percentage refund as outlined in the refund schedule. The course is removed from the
student’s transcript and no grade is assigned.
A course drop that takes place during the second period results in a mark of W on the
student’s transcript. A grade of W does not affect students’ cumulative GPA. Failure to
attend class does not constitute withdrawal from the course and does not eliminate a
student’s academic or financial responsibilities.
If a student drops all classes for the semester (zero credits), he/she is considered
withdrawing from the university and should follow the procedure for withdrawal (as
listed in the following section). Deadline dates for dropping a course with or without a W
from a course are listed in the university catalog and online.

Withdrawal from the University
Students who wish to withdraw from the university or are dropping from all classes in
a term or semester must complete a withdrawal form from the Office of Registration
and Records online. Students who interrupt their attendance for less than one academic

25 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

Double Degree Requirements

Failure to attend classes does not constitute withdrawal and does not eliminate
students’ academic or financial responsibilities. Students cannot withdraw during the
week of final exams.
Withdrawal from the university may affect financial aid awards. Any student receiving
financial aid or VA benefits must see a financial aid administrator before withdrawing.
Consult the university catalog for specific withdrawal dates.

Active Duty Withdrawal Policy
Members of the active duty military, reserves or National Guard who are called into
active service may withdraw from classes and receive a full refund of tuition and fees
for the semester. The student must present a copy of their military orders to the dean of
students along with a withdrawal form to process the withdrawal.
Students who wish to receive incomplete (I) grades for courses interrupted by a call
to active service must make arrangements with their individual professors. Faculty
will determine whether an incomplete grade is appropriate by taking into account
factors such as amount of work remaining, a student’s performance in class, mode of
instruction, etc. Students who receive incomplete grades will not receive refunds for
those courses. The student must then complete coursework by the end of the fourth
week of the next term, or the I grade will be converted to an F (unless the professor has
specified that the I be converted to a C or D). After six months, the Vice President for
Academic Affairs must approve changes in grades.
Students are responsible for keeping their professors informed of any military related
absences.

Readmission
Students who withdraw from the university are eligible for readmission at any time,
unless they have been in violation of the university’s academic regulations, or have been
dismissed for disciplinary reasons. Students who have been admitted to the university
and have not maintained continuous enrollment must resubmit an application for
admission. A readmitted student must meet the degree requirements in place at the
time of readmission in order to qualify for graduation. Applications are available online.
Arrangements for payment of outstanding tuition balances must be made with the
Business Office before readmission is approved.

Continuous Enrollment
To be considered continuously enrolled, a student must not have more than one
academic year (three consecutive semesters) of non-enrollment with the university.

26 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

year and are in good standing with Capitol Technology University at the time of the
withdrawal do not need to reapply to the university. Also see “Readmission.”

Doctoral students may request a Leave of Absence (LOA) by completing the Leave of
Absence Request form on the Registration and Records page of the MyCapitol portal.
When requesting an LOA, keep in mind, all coursework must be completed within a ten
year time period. This does not include the additional two years allowed for dissertation
completion and defense for DSc in Cybersecurity and PhD in Business Analytics and
Data Science students.
All LOA requests must be submitted in writing, including the reason for the request,
and be signed and dated. In order to adhere to federal regulations of the Department of
Education, the LOA, together with any additional leaves of absence, must not exceed a
total of 180 days in any 12-month period. The 12-month period begins on the initial date
of the LOA. At leave expiration, students must re-enroll or (if qualified) request an LOA
extension. If the student has not returned at the end of the 180-day period, the school is
required to notify the Department of Education of the student’s last date of attendance.
This will affect the student’s federal financial aid and loan repayment status. Students
with circumstances requiring LOA beyond 180 days should consider withdrawing from
the program, retaining the right to reapply at a later date. LOA forms are provided on the
MyCapitol portal.

Course Cancellation
The university can cancel a course for which an insufficient number of students are
enrolled. Students will be notified of a cancellation by the first class session, and any
payments made will be refunded in full or credited to the next term.

Course Prerequisites
When planning schedules for upcoming semesters, students should pay special
attention to the course prerequisites. Students must obtain a grade of C or better in
prerequisites for degree-required courses. Those students not meeting the course
criteria will not be allowed to register without approval from their academic department
chair.

Completion of English Courses
Students seeking bachelor’s degrees at Capitol Technology University must complete
EN-101 and EN-102 before being permitted to register for junior-level classes. Transfer
students must have equivalent transfer credits for EN-101 and EN-102 before being
permitted to register for junior-level classes. Transfer students of junior status who do
not have equivalent transfer credits for EN-101 and EN-102 must meet with an advisor
before registering.

Class Attendance
Each professor establishes regulations regarding class attendance at Capitol

27 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

Leave of Absence

Transcripts
Student academic records are maintained exclusively by the Office of Registration and
Records. These records are considered privileged documents between the student and
the university and will be released only upon a signed, written request from the student,
except as may be required by law.
Transcripts will be issued when the student submits a signed request form and the
student’s financial account is current. A $10 transcript fee is assessed for each
issuance. Transcript request forms are available in the Office of Registration and
Records and on the MyCapitol portal.
Capitol Technology University will neither issue a transcript that reflects only part
of a student’s record nor make copies of transcripts on file from other colleges or
universities. Federal guidelines prohibit the faxing or emailing of grades and transcripts.
Unofficial transcripts are available at any time with proper photo identification, provided
the student’s financial account is current.

Identification Cards
All enrolled undergraduate students will receive a Capitol Technology University
identification card. ID cards are required to check out laboratory equipment or library
materials. The student activity fee covers the cost of the original ID card. At the
beginning of each semester, information about obtaining an ID card is posted on
campus and online.
Graduate students may request an ID card from the Office of Student Life.

Scholastic Standing
Grading System
The quality of a student’s academic performance is evaluated by letter grades that are
assigned quality points as follows:
Grade Quality Standard Points
A
B
C
D
F

Excellent			4
Good				3
Average*			2
Below average**		
1
Failing 			
0

28 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

Technology University. Regular class and laboratory attendance is necessary to achieve
maximum success in university work. Students receiving financial aid who do not attend
classes will lose their aid.

Incomplete 			0
No grade 			
0
Pass 				0
Repeat 			
0
Satisfactory 		
0
Unsatisfactory 		
0
Validation credit 		
0
Withdrawn (officially)
0
Audit 				0
Transfer credit		
0

Academic Policies

I
NG
P
R
S
U
V
W
X
T

*A grade of C shows minimum expectations have been met at the graduate level.
**Grades of D will not apply toward graduate program requirements.
Credit-Bearing Courses
The following policy defines the credit hour at Capitol Technology University in
accordance with applicable federal and state regulations.
Capitol Technology University defines the credit hour as an approximation of the
learning outcomes equivalent of the Carnegie Unit. Courses are developed and
evaluated to ensure that the amount of student learning required per credit is equivalent
to one (50 minute) hour of classroom or direct faculty instruction and a minimum of two
hours of out-of-class student work for approximately fifteen weeks or two (50 minute)
hours of direct faculty instruction and four hours of out-of-class student work in an
eight-week graduate sub-term for one semester hour of credit or at least an equivalent
amount of work for other academic activities as established by the institution, including
laboratory work, internships, independent study and other academic work leading to the
award of credit hours.
Student learning outcomes reflect differences in course delivery methods, type of
instruction and interaction, degree of supervision, measurements of student work,
academic disciplines and degree levels.
All credit-bearing courses with the exception of doctoral dissertation research, writing
and presentation courses require syllabi, which will include the number of credit hours,
class meeting times and approximate schedule of required assignments.

Grade Point Average
At the end of each semester, averages are computed for each student’s record to
indicate the general level of his or her academic standing. The first is the scholarship
level for the semester. The second is the cumulative grade point average, indicating the
scholarship level for all work taken at the university to date.
In cases where a student retakes a course, only the highest grade is used in computing
the CGPA. The previous grade remains on record as information only. To graduate,

29 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Incomplete Grades
An incomplete grade (I) may be given due to unavoidable and verifiable circumstances
only at the end of a semester or term to those students whose work is current, up until
the day of the emergency, but who have left unfinished a small amount of work – for
instance, a final examination, a paper, or a term project which may be completed without
further class attendance.
When a grade of incomplete (I) is assigned, the professor will specify the work
necessary to complete the course and receive a grade, the deadline date for completion,
and the grade to be assigned if the work is not completed by the specified date. The
latest date for the deadline is the fourth week of the next term. It the student does not
make the deadline the incomplete will be converted to the grade the professor specified.
After six months, the VPAA must approve changes in grades.
In the event that the instructor from whom students receive an incomplete is no longer
available, the disposition of students’ eventual grade resides with the appropriate
department chairperson.
Incompletes need department chair approval.

No Grade Mark
When it is not appropriate to award a grade, a mark of NG will be given. NG grades are
not calculated in the student’s term or CGPA.

Grade Reports
Grade reports are available on the MyCapitol portal within three weeks after the last
day of final exams. Students who want to have grades sent to sponsors must complete
the proper request form available in the Office of Registration and Records or online.
Federal regulations prohibit the use of phone, email or fax for official grade distribution.

Grade Appeal
If a student questions the assigned grade in a course, the student must first exhaust
all possibilities to resolve the questions through discussion, dialogue, and written
communication with the instructor. If the student is unable to resolve the problem
by these efforts, the student is required to speak with the chair of the department in
which the course is offered. The purpose of such conversations is to clarify possible
misunderstandings or to remedy failures of communication (an informal appeal
process).
If no resolution is reached in the informal appeal process, the student may engage the

30 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

undergraduate students must have a minimum 2.0 CGPA and a 2.0 GPA in their degree
program. Graduate students must have a minimum 3.0 CGPA and a 3.0 GPA in their
current degree program.

Students who wish to file a formal appeal of an assigned grade must follow the steps
outlined below.


Review the section titled “Basis for Appeal” in the Grade Appeal Policy to be
sure you have legitimate grounds for appealing your grade. Any grounds for
appeal other than those listed will be considered irrelevant.
Contact the instructor within 14 calendar days of the posting of the grade and
try to reach a resolution concerning the grade. This step must be documented
by filling out Form #1on the MyCapitol Portal.
If no resolution occurred with the instructor, contact the chairperson of
the department in which the course is taught and try to reach a resolution
concerning the grade. This step must be documented in Form #1 on the
MyCapitol Portal.
If no resolution was reached with the chairperson, a formal grade appeal
may be submitted to the VPAA using Form #2 within 30 calendar days of the
conclusion of the informal appeal. Form 1 along with any relevant supporting
material, must be included when Form 2 is submitted to the VPAA.
The informal grade appeal should be completed within 30 calendar days after
the appeal was initiated.
Students who are graduating at the end of the semester the grade was
assigned: You must contact the VPAA within one week of the posting of the
grade to inform him/her that you plan to appeal the grade and are beginning
the informal appeal process by contacting the instructor and chairperson.
Students who are claiming the second basis (see below) for appeal listed
in the Grade Appeal Policy: If the appeal proceeds to the VPAA and/or grade
appeal committee, you are required to provide a list of the names of other
students and specific assignments so that a review of the relevant materials
and appropriate comparisons can be made. You must obtain express written
permission from each student listed before including his/her name in the
grade appeal.

Basis for Appeal of an Assigned Grade
An appeal may be filed by a student based on one or more of the following
grounds only:
1. An error in the calculation of the grade.
2. Assignment of a grade by application of more exacting/demanding standards
than were applied to other students in the same section of the same course, in
the same semester, with the same instructor.
3. Assignment of a grade on some basis other than performance in the course.
4. Assignment of a grade that is a substantial departure from the instructor’s

31 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

formal appeal process by appealing to the Vice President for Academic Affairs (VPAA).
Filing a formal appeal with the VPAA requires the completion of designated forms on
the Registration and Records portion of the MyCapitol Portal.

Any other grounds for appeal shall be considered irrelevant.

Informal Appeal
All students must follow the informal appeals process for questioning grades prior
to engaging the formal appeal. Students must initiate their informal appeal within 7
calendar days of the posting of the grade. Should no resolution occur by the informal
appeal, the student may choose to engage the formal appeal process as noted below in
items 1, 2 & 3. The student should initiate the informal process through email or face-toface meeting.
1. Student to Meet with Instructor. In so doing, they are to, where possible, seek out
the instructor for a face-to-face conversation.
2. Instructor to Give Due Consideration. The instructor is encouraged to listen to
the entirety of the student’s case and then to consider whether the current grade
is appropriate.
3. Student to Contact Department Chairperson. Should no resolution occur, the
student is required to contact the department chairperson. The chairperson is
required to meet with the student one- on-one, to seek a conversation with the
instructor one-on-one, and then highly encouraged to meet with the two of them
together.

Formal Appeal
For grade appeals involving courses taught at Capitol Technology University, students
must complete the Capitol Technology University Grade Appeal Forms found on the
MyCapitol Portal and submit it to the Capitol Technology University VPAA’s Office. When
filing an appeal, a student must specify the basis of the appeal and do so within 30
calendar days of the conclusion of the informal appeal. The student must indicate one
of the following:
1. Instructor Unwilling to Communicate. The instructor is unable or unwilling to
communicate with the student on the appeal and the informal appeal could not
proceed.
2. No Resolution. No resolution resulted from the informal appeal process.

Contents of Formal Appeal
The student should attach to the appeal forms as much of the relevant physical and
electronic record as is possible to collect. If the basis of differential standards is
asserted, the student should provide a list of the names of other students and specific
assignments so that a review of the relevant materials and appropriate comparisons
can be made.

32 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

previously announced standards for that section of that course.
5. Assignment of a grade that is a substantial departure from the written
departmentally approved standards for a course.

For appeals of grades submitted by instructors who have been terminated, resigned, or
retired, it is the VPAA’s responsibility to manage the notification process. In doing so,
the VPAA shall make three separate attempts at contact within 30 calendar days, with
the last one in writing by registered letter to the last known address. If after ten working
days of the VPAA’s receiving the registered letter receipt the instructor still refuses to
discuss the grade appeal, the VPAA shall convene the Grade Appeal Committee.
If an instructor has denied the grade appeal after having met with the department
chairperson, the VPAA must review the materials and discuss the matter with
the student. The VPAA may choose to discuss the matter with the instructor, the
chairperson, or both. If the VPAA cannot create a resolution satisfactory to the
instructor and student, the VPAA shall convene the Grade Appeal Committee.

Grade Appeal Committee
The Grade Appeal Committee will consist of five members with one alternate from the
Faculty Advisory Council appointed by the VPAA. Members of a department may serve
on the grade appeal of a departmental colleague. When the instructor in question is a
member of the committee, she/ he is recused and the alternate shall serve in her/his
place.
Without regard to the calendar, once a formal appeal has been submitted to the
committee, that committee shall remain with the appeal until its conclusion. If two
or more grade appeals are received by the VPAA about the same instructor and
same course, the committee can determine to combine them into one process if the
committee determines the students’ rights to appeal are not compromised.
The Grade Appeal Committee will review all materials from the previous steps of
the grade appeal process. If necessary, the Grade Appeal Committee may request
additional materials from the student and/or the instructor that are pertinent to the
specific case.

Grade Appeal Committee Actions
The Grade Appeal Committee, by majority vote, shall within 10 calendar days or ask for
exception baring the need for additional information recommend one of the following:
1. That the original grade stands
2. That any higher grade be substituted for the original grade
3. That an incomplete grade be granted. (If this recommendation is made, the
departmental chairperson shall be appointed the instructor of record for the
course for this student. The conditions for completion, the default grade, and the
expiration of the incomplete shall be specified by the Grade Appeal Committee.)

33 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

Verification of Appropriateness of Appeal

When a recommendation is made by the Grade Appeal Committee, the Grade Appeal
Committee shall prepare a written summary of the recommendation and transmit the
recommendation to the VPAA. Within 10 calendar days, the VPAA will transmit the
recommendation to the student, instructor, and chairperson.
If a grade change is recommended, the VPAA shall prepare a letter to the Registrar
stating the new grade. The letter will carry the signature of the VPAA and the members
of the committee. No such letter is required if there is no change in grade.

Grade Changes
Occasionally, a grade must be changed as errors do occur. However, grade changes will
not be accepted later than six months after a term has ended; therefore, if a student
truly feels that a mistake has been made, he or she must investigate as soon as
possible after the grade is issued (see Grade Appeal above).

Dean’s List for Full-time Students
Full-time undergraduate students who have GPAs of 3.5 or higher, and no failing grades
for the semester, qualify for the dean’s list. Dean’s list designation is included on the
student’s transcript.

Dean’s List for Part-time Students
Part-time undergraduate students taking at least six semester credits, who have GPAs
of 3.5 or higher and no failing grades for the semester, qualify for the dean’s list for parttime students. Dean’s list designation is included on the student’s permanent record.

Academic Performance
Academic Standing
Students seeking a bachelor’s or associate degree are in good academic standing if
they have a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.0 in their degree program and
are not on academic suspension. Students seeking a master’s or doctoral degree are
in good academic standing if they have a CGPA of at least 3.0 and are not on academic
suspension.

Repeating a Class
A specific course may be repeated twice in order to improve a grade or replace a W or X.
Therefore, a student may take a specific course only three times. Three time enrollment
is limited to a maximum of five different courses during a student’s academic career.
The higher grade is used and the lower grade is omitted in computing the CGPA. All
grades are recorded on the student’s transcript.

34 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

Transmission

An academically dismissed student with extenuating circumstances can appeal in
writing to the Vice President for Academic Affairs for recommendation.

Satisfactory Academic Progress for Students Receiving Financial Aid
Undergraduate and graduate students receiving federal aid must meet satisfactory
academic progress (SAP) standards or risk the cancellation of financial awards and
repayment of funds already received. See page 50 for the policy.

Academic Probation
Academic probation alerts students that they are in academic trouble and will be
suspended from the university if their GPA and CGPA are not brought up to good
academic standing (see above).
Undergraduate students are placed on academic probation under the following
conditions:
•
•
•

If a student registers for MA-005 or EN-001 and does not complete the course
with a P.
If the CGPA of an undergraduate student with fewer than 30 attempted credits
falls below 1.7.
If the CGPA of an undergraduate student with more than 30 attempted credits
falls below 2.0.

Undergraduate students on academic probation must have a mandatory meeting with
their advisor before registration and may not register for more than 12 semester credits,
or no more than four courses.
Master’s degree students whose cumulative GPA falls below 3.0 are placed on last
warning. Students on academic probation will be given three semesters (registered for
coursework) to raise their CGPA to 3.0 and must consult with their advisor on the best
course options.
Doctoral students must maintain a 3.0 GPA. A grade of C or below is not acceptable.
A doctoral student who receives a C or lower in any course must repeat that
course, achieving a B or higher before moving on in the program. Students failing to
successfully achieve a grade of B or higher in a single course after three attempts
will be dismissed from the program. A student whose cumulative grade point average
falls below 3.0 will be placed on academic probation. Probation will be lifted when the
student achieves a cumulative GPA of 3.0. Students failing to meet any of these criteria
will be dismissed from the doctoral program.

35 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

Any student who has taken a course required for their degree three times and has not
achieved a satisfactory grade will be dismissed from that academic program. The
dismissed student is permitted to apply for any other program that does not require that
specific course.

Undergraduate students who have not completed the prerequisites for MA-110, MA112 or MA-114 and EN-101 through placement testing, or successful completion of
MA-005 and EN-001 after two attempts, will be suspended from the university until it
is demonstrated that they can achieve and maintain good academic standing at the
university level by successfully completing MA-110, MA-112 or MA-114 and EN-101
(depending on their degree program) at another accredited college or university with a
grade of C or better.
Undergraduate students whose cumulative GPA has been below 2.0 for three
consecutive semesters will be suspended from the university for one academic
semester after which they may return to the university. Students suspended from the
university are not relieved of their financial obligations.
Upon return, students will remain on probation and must achieve and maintain good
academic standing or be suspended from the university until it is demonstrated
to the faculty that they can achieve and maintain good academic standing at the
university level. To demonstrate to the faculty that a student can achieve and maintain
good academic standing at the university level, he or she must complete at least six
academic courses (a minimum of 18 credits) with grades of a C or better at another
accredited college or university. Before a student is readmitted to Capitol Technology
University, the director of admissions will review his or her file.

Academic Dismissal
After a second suspension, undergraduate students who have been readmitted
to Capitol Technology University after completing 18 credits at another institution
must earn a 2.0 GPA each semester. If their GPA falls below 2.0 at any time, they
will be dismissed and not permitted to return to Capitol Technology University.
Graduate students who fail to reach the 3.0 requirement in the allowed period will be
automatically dismissed and may not be readmitted to the university for at least one
year after the effective date of dismissal.
Students dismissed from the university are not relieved of their financial obligations.
The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs regional office will be notified if students
receiving VA educational benefits are suspended or terminated. The Vice President for
Academic Affairs will consider re-entry requests on an individual basis from students
who have been dismissed for unsatisfactory progress.
The Office of Registration and Records will maintain a record of each VA student’s
grades in accordance with VA regulations. A student can request official transcripts
from the Office of Registration and Records as long as his or her financial accounts are
current.
Any doctoral student who has been dismissed for failure to meet academic standards
becomes eligible to reapply no sooner than one year after the dismissal date. Students

36 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

Academic Suspension

Disciplinary Dismissal
The continued enrollment of any student is dependent upon proper conduct. Failure
to comply with the university’s regulations, or conduct deemed by the faculty as
inconsistent with general good order, is regarded as sufficient cause for irreversible
dismissal. The university reserves the right to terminate a student’s enrollment at any
time for cause. Students dismissed from the university are not relieved of their financial
obligations. Students who are dismissed for academic dishonesty or other breaches of
student conduct will not be considered for readmission.

Matriculation
Classification of Undergraduate Students
Freshman 29 semester credits or fewer
Sophomore 30-59 semester credits
Junior 60-89 semester credits
Senior 90 semester credits or more

Residency Requirements
A minimum of 15 semester credits, including 12 semester credits in the student’s
degree program, must be completed at Capitol Technology University in order to
receive an associate degree. At least 30 semester hours of academic credit must be
earned by direct instruction. Direct instruction does not include instruction through
correspondence, credit for prior learning, cooperative education activities, practica,
internships, externships, apprenticeships, portfolio review, departmental examinations
or challenge examinations.
A minimum of 30 semester credits, including 18 semester credits in the student’s
degree program, must be completed at Capitol Technology University in order to receive
a bachelor’s degree. At least 60 semester hours of academic credit must be earned by
direct instruction. Direct instruction means synchronous or asynchronous instruction for
academic credit that allows regular interaction between student and instructor, such as
lectures, laboratory instruction, interactive instructional television, delayed video online
instruction and (if regular interaction is available from an instructor) independent study.
For all BS degrees, at least 27 credits must be 300-level or above to qualify for
graduation. Students who want to take courses at another institution for possible
transfer after enrolling at Capitol Technology University must receive prior written
permission from their academic department chair. Transfer credit approval forms are
available at the Office of Registration and Records and online.

37 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

will be required to submit a letter with the application, outlining how the reasons for
the conditions that led to dismissal have been re-mediated and why the student is now
confident that he or she will succeed in the program. The student must meet all the
requirements of the degree existing at the time of readmission.

Enrollment Status
Undergraduate
			

1-11 credits is considered part time
12-18 credits is considered full time

Master’s		 1-8 credits is considered part time
			
9 or more credits is considered full time
Doctoral 		
			

1-5 credits is considered part time
6 or more credits is considered full time

For federal and Veterans’ benefits enrollment requirements, see page 54.

Graduation Requirements
Capitol Technology University holds an annual commencement ceremony at
on campus each spring. Transcripts always reflect the exact semester the degree
program is completed. The “date degree conferred” information on transcripts and
diplomas coincides with the date of the May commencement ceremony for spring
semester graduates and with the last day of classes in the semester for summer and
fall semester graduates.

Undergraduate Requirements
Undergraduate students must have satisfactorily completed the curriculum
requirements for their degree program with a CGPA and degree program GPA of at least
2.0, including a grade of C or better on their Senior Project capstone course, and must
have satisfied the Capitol Technology University residency requirements as listed.
Undergraduate students who complete all degree requirements by the end of the
summer session are permitted to take part in the commencement ceremonies as
degree candidates.
If a student is not enrolled for the summer by April 15, permission to participate as a
degree candidate will not be granted.
Undergraduate students must file an application for graduation with the Office of
Registration and Records no later than six months before the semester of completion.
Students are subsequently notified of approval and status. Applications for graduation
are available in the Office of Registration and Records and online. The graduation fee,
due by April 15, cannot be waived.
Undergraduate students are considered degree candidates only when the above
procedures have been completed. Students who change their plans for graduation must
notify the Office of Registration and Records in writing.
38 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

Graduate degrees must be completed in their entirety at Capitol Technology University,
with the exception of students transferring courses in accordance with the transfer
credit policy on page 41 of this catalog.

Capitol Technology University conducts an annual commencement ceremony at the
Laurel campus each spring. The “date degree conferred” information on transcripts
and diplomas coincides with the date of the commencement ceremony for spring
semester graduates and with the last day of classes in the semester for summer and
fall graduates.

Time Limit for Degree Completion
Doctoral students are required to maintain satisfactory progress toward the completion
of course requirements, which must be accomplished within ten years. MS/PhD
students must complete course requirements within ten years. The ten-year period
begins when the oldest course applied to the degree was completed. If a doctoral
student takes more than ten years then approval will be needed from the VPAA to
continue. DSc in Cybersecurity students and PhD in Business Analytics and Data
Science students then have an additional two years after completing all required
coursework to submit and defend their dissertation.

Graduation Clearance
In the final weeks of their last semester of study, students should check with the
Business Office, the Office of Financial Aid, the Office of Residence Life and the Puente
Library to be certain that they have no outstanding obligations. Diplomas and transcripts
will not be issued for students who have outstanding library books or fines, outstanding
balances in the Business Office, or for financial aid recipients who have not completed
the exit interview survey with the Office of Financial Aid.

Academic Honors
Honors are awarded and noted on the transcript of students who graduate with the
following cumulative GPAs:
Undergraduate
3.9 - 4.0 summa cum laude
3.75 - 3.8999 magna cum laude
3.5 - 3.7499 cum laude
Master’s
4.0 with honors
If an undergraduate student is completing more than one degree, the overall CGPA
is used to calculate honors for the multiple degree programs. If a master’s student is
completing more than one degree, the CGPA within their degree program is used to
determine honors.

39 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

Graduate Requirements

Honor Societies
The Maryland Beta Chapter represents the Alpha Chi National Honor Society at Capitol
Technology University. Membership is based on demonstrated service to the university
community, good reputation and character, as well as high academic standing. Juniors
and seniors enrolled in one of the bachelor’s degree programs at Capitol Technology
University for at least one year and who rank among the top 10 percent of their class are
eligible for election to the chapter by the faculty.
Alpha Chi offers opportunities for public performance at conventions; publication in
the Alpha Chi Recorder; leadership through National Council membership; financial
assistance through National Benedict Fellowships, Nolle Scholarships and several
regional scholarships; and participation in local chapter projects and activities.
Tau Alpha Pi National Honor Society
The Kappa Alpha Chapter represents the Tau Alpha Pi National Honor Society at Capitol
Technology University. Membership requirements include successful completion of
at least 55 semester credit hours and at least 24 semester credit hours at Capitol
Technology University, enrollment in one of the degree programs, a CGPA of at least
3.5 for two consecutive semesters and a willingness to lead and serve in capacities
beneficial to the university community. Members are elected for life. The chapter holds
dinner meetings to recognize new members and encourages alumni participation.
Eta Kappa Nu National Honor Society
The Kappa Mu Chapter of Eta Kappa Nu at Capitol Technology University is a national
honor society for electrical engineers. HKN was founded in 1904 and boasts a
membership of over 175,000, representing 198 chapters. This prestigious organization
is the only honor society solely devoted to electrical engineering. A successful
candidate possesses proven character, perseverance and the ability to excel. This
organization extends membership to the top juniors and seniors in the fall and spring
semesters. Officers are elected in the fall.
Sigma Beta Delta
Sigma Beta Delta encourages and recognizes scholarship and achievement among
students of business, management and administration. The organization also promotes
personal and professional improvement and a life distinguished by honorable service to
humankind.
Membership in Sigma Beta Delta is the highest national recognition a business student
can receive at a college or university with a Sigma Beta Delta chapter. To be eligible for
membership, a business student must rank in the upper 20 percent of the junior, senior
or master’s class and be invited to membership by the faculty officers.
Upsilon Pi Epsilon
It is the express purpose of Upsilon Pi Epsilon (UPE) to promote the computing and
40 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

Alpha Chi National Honor Society

The mission of UPE is to recognize academic excellence at both the undergraduate and
graduate levels in the Computing and Information Disciplines. UPE is a member of the
Association of College Honor Societies (ACHS). UPE has received endorsements from
the two largest computer organizations in the world, the Association for Computing
Machinery (ACM) and the IEEE Computer Society (IEEE-CS). UPE is also a charter
member of The International Federation of Engineering Education Societies (IFEES).
UPE both installed the Capitol chapter and inducted the charter members in April 2018.

Transfer Credits
Undergraduate Transfer Policies
Unofficial transfer credit evaluations are completed during the admissions process
in consultation with the academic departments. Once the transfer student is enrolled
at Capitol Technology University, an official evaluation is conducted by the assistant
director of registration and records in consultation with the academic departments
and approved by the director of registration and records. The academic evaluator will
consult with faculty who teaches the course at Capitol Technology University if there
is a need or a concern. If there is a need or concern, the student is expected to provide
sufficient documentation that is requested to support the transferred credit approval.
A copy of the official transfer evaluation will be included in the student’s folder. The
approved transfer credits are then added to the student’s permanent academic record
and the student will receive written notification of the official transfer evaluation from
the Office of Registration and Records. Once students matriculate at Capitol Technology
University, they must meet the academic standards for their degree program.
Capitol Technology University will consider credit for transfer from coursework
completed at a regionally accredited institution, ABET-accredited program, or, in special
cases, other qualified institutions acceptable to the standards of Capitol Technology
University. Capitol Technology University will consider transfer credit for courses taken
at an unaccredited institution on a probationary status, in which the student must
complete a minimum of 24 credits at Capitol Technology University with a CGPA of 2.0
before the credits will transfer.
Coursework must also meet the following requirements:
•
•
•
•
•

Course content must be equivalent to the content of Capitol’s course
Courses must be relevant to the Capitol Technology University curriculum.
Only a passing grade of C or higher will be considered for transfer (courses
are evaluated and transferred individually).
Grades do not transfer, therefore transfer credits are not used in computing
the CGPA.
Capitol Technology University credit requirements are based on the semester

41 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

information disciplines and to encourage their contribution to the enhancement of
knowledge.

Capitol Technology University may transfer a maximum of 70 semester-credit hours
from any combination of the following:

community or junior colleges*
proprietary or technical schools
the military
College Level Examination Program (CLEP)
DANTES Subject Standardized Test Program (DSST)
StraighterLine courses
Advanced Placement (AP)
International Baccalaureate (IB)
Massive Open Online Course (MOOC)**

* Credits transferred are limited to the first two years and approximately 50% of the
baccalaureate degree program.
** MOOC coursework will be considered for transfer credit if the courses are approved
by the American Council of Education (ACE).
There is no maximum amount of credits that can be transferred from a four-year
accredited institution as long as residency requirements are met.
Military Credits
Capitol Technology University will award credit for military courses based on the
American Council on Education’s Guide to the Evaluation for Educational Experiences
in the Armed Forces and program relevancy. Applicants must present an official Joint
Services Transcript (JST) to the Capitol Technology University Admissions Office or
Office of Registration and Records.
Industrial Courses
Capitol Technology University will not accept credits for courses taken at an industrial
site unless the American Council on Education has approved the course. Students who
have taken industrial courses may elect to take validation exams (see below).
Continuing Education Units
Capitol Technology University will not accept continuing education units (CEU) for
transfer.

42 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

•
•
•

credit system. Transfer credits from other institutions operating on other
academic calendar systems will be converted to semester credits.
The grade of D will not be accepted for credit even when it is part of a degree.
Comply with Residency Requirements as stated on page 36 in the Catalog.
Courses completed more than five years prior to enrollment at Capitol
Technology University will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.

The official results of all CLEP exams must be submitted to the Office of Registration
and Records no later than two semesters before completion.
Validation Exams
Undergraduate students who can demonstrate competence in a subject without having
completed the specific coursework, due to relevant work or life experience, may take
a specially arranged validation examination. Not every course, however, lends itself to
the validation process, and the Vice President for Academic Affairs or the student’s
department chair must grant permission for the examination to be given. Validation
examinations are thorough and cannot be taken a second time. In addition, a student
may not request a validation exam for a course in which a grade of D or lower has been
earned.
Students interested in taking a validation exam should visit the Office of Registration
and Records, where forms and procedures (including fees) are available. Students
who pass the validation examination receive a V on their transcript and the appropriate
number of semester credits. No partial credit or quality points are awarded.
Professional Certifications
Capitol Technology University will consider transfer credit for industry recognized
certifications that are relevant to the program curriculum (CompTIA A+,N+,S+,CEH,
CISSP, OWSP)
Waived/Substituted Courses
In some circumstances, transfer credits may count toward a waived or substituted
course. If a Capitol Technology University course is waived, the student must complete
the equivalent number of credits in a related subject area to fulfill the requirements
of the degree. If a course is substituted, the credit is transferred and the requirement
is therefore considered complete. Waivers and substitutions are conducted by the
Undergraduate Academic Advisor and Assistant Director of Registration and Records
and approved in writing by the student’s academic department chair.
Engineering Programs
Students transferring credits into the engineering programs must follow additional
guidelines.
Credits for military, vocational or technical training may be used to satisfy some
electronics and technology-based freshman and sophomore level EL courses.
Such courses do not fulfill the objectives of engineering, engineering science, or
social science courses; they may be used as engineering electives in the engineering
programs.
NCCER Transfer Policy
The National Center for Construction Education & Research (NCCER) and Capitol

43 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

CLEP Tests

For all NCCER Certifications, one (1) semester hour of credit will be awarded for
a minimum of fifteen (15) hours of NCCER approved training where each hour is
composed of fifty (50) minutes of actual class time, exclusive of registration, study
days, and holidays, when supervision is assured and learning is documented. One
(1) semester hour of credit will also be awarded for a minimum of thirty (30) hours
of NCCER approved training where each hour is composed fifty (50) minutes each of
supervised laboratory time, exclusive of registration, study days, and holidays, when
supervision is assured and learning is documented.
A minimum of 30 credit hours must be completed from Capitol Technology University to
obtain any baccalaureate degree regardless of the total amount of credit transferred in
towards the degree.

Graduate Transfer Policies
Master’s Transfer Policies
Unofficial transfer credit evaluations are completed during the admissions process in
consultation with the academic departments. Once the student is enrolled at Capitol
Technology University, an official evaluation is conducted by the assistant director of
registration and records in consultation with the academic departments and approved
by the director of registration and records. The approved transfer credits are then
added to the student’s permanent academic record, and the student will receive written
notification of the official transfer evaluation from the Office of Registration and
Records.
A maximum of twelve semester credits of comparable accredited coursework taken
elsewhere may be applied toward a master’s degree. Only courses with a B or better
will be accepted for transfer. Capitol Technology University will not accept continuing
education units (CEUs) for transfer. Results from a certification exam may not be used
for transfer. Validation exams for credit are not available at the master’s level. In some
cases, military training that is part of a completed master’s degree may be used as
transfer credit. Once the student enrolls at Capitol Technology University, all remaining
credits must be completed at Capitol Technology University except in the case of
students who participated in selected DoD programs, who may be eligible to transfer up
to 15 credit hours into named Masters’ programs.
At the master level, any student applying that has courses taken within ten years prior

44 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

Technology University have a MHEC reviewed and approved agreement for NCCER
credential completers to have their credential evaluated for technical elective credit.
These technical elective credits may transfer into any baccalaureate program. The
number of technical elective credit hours from NCCER programs may not exceed 42
credits. Students from accredited 2-year or 4-year institutions may transfer additional
credits. However, a maximum of 70 credits can be transferred from a combination
of NCCER and 2 year institutions. The National Center for Construction Education &
Research is located via https://www.nccer.org

Doctoral Transfer Policies
At the doctoral level, any student applying that has courses taken within ten years of
At the doctoral level, any student applying that has courses taken within ten years of
admission will be considered for transfer, and courses that were last taken more than
ten years prior to admission will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. If the last class
is less than 10 years prior to admission all the classes completed on that course will be
considered. Only grades of a “B” or better, “passing” or “satisfactory” will be accepted
for transfer.
Maryland allows for up to a 6 credits to transfer from Masters’ degrees towards a
doctorate when the award has a minimum of 36 credits. For these to be applied to the
D.Sc. or Ph.D. in Business Analytics & Data Science the credits must match the syllabus
at 75% except in the case of students who participated in selected DoD programs,
who may be eligible to transfer up to 15 credit hours into named Time Limit for Degree
CompletionDoctoral programs. On specific master’s degrees where the University has a
MOU we will accept up to 12 credits.
For research-based doctoral programs, up to 42 credits of graduate-level work will be
considered for transfer, with up to six of these credits being master’s level coursework.
For those that have completed a doctorate degree, regardless of when, 42 credits may
be transferred on the research degree.
Students having qualifications from outside the USA and having studied for a doctorate
degree but not completed they will need two years full time or 3 years part-time to
qualify for 42 credit transfer as many universities do not have classes for credit.
Traditionally European/UK PhD are three years full time as a minimum. If the Doctorate
degree is from Europe or the UK style they will unlikely have a transcript; their degree
awarded certificate will be used, 42 credits transferred, and this decision will be
approved by the VPAA.

45 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Academic Policies

to admission will be considered for transfer, and courses that were last taken more than
ten years prior to admission will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Once accepted,
master level transfer credits do not expire.

Tuition/Financial Aid
Tuition and Fees

Undergraduate Tuition
Full-time/Part-time Tuition
Full-time 2022-2023 tuition, per semester (12-18 credits) $12,915
Full-time 2022-2023 credits above 18 (per credit) $1,077
Part-time 1-11 credits (per credit) $846
Audited courses (per credit) $846
Anytime online, standard rate* (per credit), plus fees $450
Anytime online, partnership rate* (per credit), plus fees $360
*Eligibility for this rate requires acceptance into an anytime online program. Additional
discounts and scholarships do not apply.
Military Tuition Rates
Undergraduate active duty military tuition rate **$250
(Per credit, plus fees)
Undergraduate retired military tuition rate $746
(Per credit, plus fees)
**Additional discounts and scholarships do not apply

Graduate Tuition
Master’s Programs
Online or satellite site (per credit), plus fees $630
Independent study (per credit), plus fees $877
Online 3-credit course, including fees $2,007
Active duty military tuition* (per credit), plus fees $350
Retired military tuition* (per credit), plus fees $530
*Additional discounts and scholarships do not apply.

46 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Tuition/Financial Aid

The following rates are in effect for the 2022-2023 academic year beginning fall 2022
and continuing through summer 2023. Tuition rates are subject to change without
notice.

Doctoral Program
Per credit $933, plus fees
3-credit course $2,916
Active duty military tuition* (per credit) $833, plus fees

Tuition/Financial Aid

Retired military tuition* (per credit) $883, plus fees
*Additional discounts and scholarships do not apply.

Fees
Admissions
Undergraduate paper application $25
Undergraduate online application FREE
Master’s program online application FREE
Processing fee for international students $75
Doctorate application $100
Registration
Late registration for continuing students $40
Drop/add (each form) $10
Deferred payment plan $30
Late payment $25
Returned check $40
Check stop payment request $40
Undergraduate On-campus Student Services (per semester)
Resident students $156
Full-time commuter students (12+ credits) $89
Part-time commuter students (1-11 credits) $18
Information Technology (per semester)
Undergraduate Full-time (flat fee, 12+ credits) $431
Undergraduate Part-time (per credit, 1-11 credits) Master’s (per credit) $39

47 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

CITI Exam Fee for Initial Doctoral Course $50
Write and Cite Exam Fee for Initial Doctoral Course $50
Academic Services
Transcripts (each) $10

Tuition/Financial Aid

Certificates (each) $25
Replacement of diploma $75
Graduation (non-refundable)
AAS degree programs $75
BS, MS, MBA, DSc degree programs $150
Additional degrees conferred at same time $75
Validation Exam $500
Lab Fees
Level 1 Lab Fee $25
Level 2 Lab Fee $50
Level 3 Lab Fee $75
Level 4 Lab Fee $100
Level 5 Lab Fee $350
Level 6 Lab Fee $500
International Student Fee (per semester) $770
Campus Residence Halls (per semester)
Single occupancy bedroom

$4,136 - $4,214

Double occupancy bedroom

$3,616

Triple occupancy bedroom		

$2,968

Room reservation fee		

$150

Security deposit (refundable)

$50

Student services			$156
Communication fee			$150
On-Campus Summer 2023 Housing
Single occupancy bedroom TBD
48 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Full-Time Student Tuition Cap
Capitol Technology University offers a tuition-cap program for undergraduate students
registered full time. Academic year tuition increases are capped at a maximum of 1%
per year from the students’ first full-time semester for up to five years. To remain eligible
for the tuition-cap rate, students must adhere to the following terms and conditions.
Maintain continuous full-time enrollment during the academic year (minimum
12 credits per semester).
• Keep all financial accounts up to date. (Consult the academic calendar for
due dates.)
• Remain in good academic standing. (See page 34 for academic
performance.)
If these terms are not met, the student will no longer be eligible for the tuition cap and
will be subject to the prevailing tuition rate.

Payment Options

Full payment at time of registration
Deferred payment plan
Financial aid (see page 46)
VA benefits (see page 54)
Employer sponsorship
Employer reimbursement

Deferred Payment Plan
The deferred payment plan allows semester students to pay their tuition in three
installments: one-third at registration, one-third on or before the end of the fourth
week of classes and one-third on or before the end of the eighth week. Students taking
8-week classes may also pay their tuition using a deferred payment plan; 50 percent
of tuition is due upon registration and the remaining balance is due four weeks after
classes begin. The cost of the deferred payment plan is $30, which is due with the first
installment.
Nonpayment of tuition deposits may result in registration cancellation. Failure to adhere
to the arrangements of the deferred payment plan may result in immediate dismissal
from the university. Students who abuse the deferred payment plan will not be allowed
to defer their tuition in the future.
Students on academic last warning are not eligible to use the deferred payment plan
and must pay their tuition in full at registration.
Employer Sponsorship
Students who are sponsored by an employer or other appropriate third party must

49 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Tuition/Financial Aid

•

submit authorization forms to the Business Office at the time of registration. Sponsors
will be billed directly. Tuition not covered will be the responsibility of the student.
Employer Tuition Reimbursement

Graduate students (masters and doctorate) who are reimbursed by an employer must
submit authorization forms to the Business Office at the time of registration along
with one third (1/3) of the tuition cost. Balance is due ten (10) days after classes end.
Students who do not pay within the ten days will be subject to deferment fees and
required to follow the standard payment options in the future.
Financial Aid
All students who receive financial aid are required to pay the remaining balance in full
or follow the appropriate deferred payment plan. If funds have not been received by
the university from a particular financial aid source, that amount will not be credited to
the student’s account and cannot be provided to the student, even if notification of the
award has been received.
Book Vouchers
All students receiving financial aid in excess of tuition, fees and on-campus housing
charges may be considered for a book voucher. The Business Office must receive all
financial aid proceeds, including federal and private loans, for students to receive a book
voucher.
Obligation for Payment
Tuition and fees for all students become an obligation in accordance with the provisions
of the refund schedule in this section. Failure to pay any debt when due to the university
is considered sufficient cause to bar the student from classes or examinations or
to withhold diploma, scholastic certificate or transcript of record. Students with
outstanding accounts will be sent to collections. Collection or litigation expenses
associated with this account are the responsibility of the student. Students whose
accounts are past due one semester will be notified that their accounts are in jeopardy
of being referred to a collection agency.

Refund Policy

Dropping or Withdrawing from Classes
It is the students’ responsibility to officially drop any class in which they are enrolled.
This includes situations in which the student never attended the first class meeting.
Never attending or ceasing to attend classes does not constitute an official withdrawal
or relieve students of their financial obligation to Capitol Technology University.

50 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Tuition/Financial Aid

Students who are reimbursed by their employers must pay in full or use the
undergraduate deferred payment plan.

Refunds are computed according to the following schedule and are a percentage based
on the full tuition amount for each course. The percentage listed equates to the student
refund in the event the balance was paid in full before the start of class. Students on
company contract may be personally responsible for the balance of their tuition, in the
event their company only pays for completed courses.
Please refer to the published semester and term calendars or online for specific dates
of refunds.

Tuition Refund Schedules
8-Week Term Courses
100% Student drops before the first day of classes
75% Student drops during the first week of classes
50% Student drops during the second week of classes
25% Student drops during the third week of classes
0% Student drops after the third week of classes
16-Week Term Courses
100% Student drops before the first day of classes
75% Student drops during the first or second week of classes
50% Student drops during the third week of classes
25% Student drops during the fourth week of classes
0% Student drops after the fourth week of classes
Military Tuition Assistance Refund Policy
Military Tuition Assistance (TA) is awarded to a student under the assumption that the
student will attend school for the entire period for which the assistance is awarded.
When a student withdraws, the student may no longer be eligible for the full amount of
TA funds originally awarded. To comply with the Department of Defense policy, Capitol
Technology University will return any unearned TA funds on a proportional basis through
at least the 60% portion of the period for which the funds were provided. TA funds are
earned proportionally during an enrollment period, with unearned funds returned based
upon when a student stops attending. If a service member stops attending due to a

51 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Tuition/Financial Aid

Full tuition refunds are available only to students who officially drop a class before the
first day of classes. After the first day of classes, any student who drops or withdraws
from class will be subject to the tuition refund schedule, outlined below. Refunds are
effective on the date the drop or withdrawal is submitted to the Office of Registration
and Records.

When a student “officially” withdraws from a course, the date of withdrawal will be
used as the last date of attendance. If a student receives a grade of F (failure for
nonattendance) for a course, that is considered an “unofficial” withdrawal. For unofficial
withdrawals, Capitol Technology University will determine the last date of attendance
by reviewing the last date of activity within a course. For online courses, Capitol
Technology University will determine last date of attendance based on the last date a
student made a contribution to the class or submitted an assignment. For on-campus
courses, Capitol Technology University will reach out to the professor to determine the
last date of attendance.
Once last date of attendance has been determined, Capitol Technology University will
recalculate the student’s TA eligibility based on the following formula: Percentage
earned equals number of days completed divided by total number of days on the
course.
Determining eligibility for TA is class specific. The start and end date will be used
for each class to determine eligibility. Using the formula above, Capitol Technology
University will be required to return to the Department of Defense some or all of the
TA awarded to service members that did not complete at least 60% of each course,
possibly creating a balance on the Capitol Technology University student account.
Federal Return of Funds Policy
The Office of Financial Aid is required by federal statute to recalculate federal financial
aid eligibility for students who withdraw, drop out, are dismissed or take a leave of
absence before completing 60% of a semester or term. The federal Title IV financial aid
programs must be recalculated in these situations.
If a student leaves Capitol Technology University before completing 60% of a semester
or term, the Office of Financial Aid recalculates eligibility for Title IV funds. Recalculation
is based on the percentage of earned aid using the following Federal Return of Title IV
funds formula:
Percentage of semester or term completed = the number of days completed up to the
withdrawal date divided by the total days in the semester or term. (Any break of five
days or more is not counted as part of the days in the term.) This percentage is also the
percentage of earned aid.
Funds are returned to the appropriate federal program based on the percentage of
unearned aid using the following formula:
Aid to be returned = 100% of the aid that could be disbursed minus the percentage of
earned aid for the semester or term.
If a student earned less aid than was disbursed, the institution would be required to
52 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Tuition/Financial Aid

military service obligation, Capitol Technology University will work with the affected
service member to identify solutions that will not result in a student debt for the
returned portion.

return a portion of the funds and the student would be required to return a portion of
the funds. Keep in mind that when Title IV funds are returned, the student borrower may
owe a debit balance to the institution. Title IV funds are returned within 45 days from
the date the university determined the student withdrew.

Post withdrawal Pell disbursements will be made within 45 days of the date the
university determined the student withdrew. Post withdrawal Loan disbursements
require the student or Parent for PLUS loans to authorize the post withdraw
disbursement. Therefore the university will offer the post withdrawal disbursement
within 30 days, giving the student or parent an additional 14 days to accept or decline
the post withdrawal disbursement. If accepted the post withdrawal loan disbursement
will be made within 14 days of student/parent acceptance.
Credit Balances on student accounts are refunded within 14 days of occurrence.
Refunds are allocated in the following order:

Unsubsidized Direct Loans
Subsidized Direct Loans
Federal Perkins Loans
Direct PLUS Loans
Federal Pell Grants
Federal Supplemental Opportunity Grants

According to federal regulation, a financial aid student who receives all F’s during
a period of enrollment is considered not to have attended any of his or her classes;
therefore, all financial aid received for that period of enrollment must be returned to
the Department of Education. Financial aid will not have to be returned to the federal
government if at least one of the student’s professors verifies that the student has been
in class and really earns the failing grade. The return of financial aid does not relieve the
student of financial obligations.

Financial Aid
Capitol Technology University understands that paying for college is a major hurdle
for parents and students. To help families meet tuition and living expenses, the
university offers a variety of financial assistance programs including loans, work-study,
scholarships and grants to help cover tuition and living expenses. Regardless of income
level, all degree-seeking students are encouraged to apply for assistance.
Financial aid is available to both full- and part-time degree-seeking undergraduate
students and graduate students enrolled in a minimum of six credits who are U.S.

53 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Tuition/Financial Aid

If a student earned more aid than was disbursed to him/her, the institution would owe
the student a post-withdrawal disbursement that must be paid within 120 days of the
student’s withdrawal.

citizens or eligible non-citizens. Audited courses, some repeated courses, and credit by
examination are not counted as meeting enrollment requirements. A student receiving
financial aid must demonstrate satisfactory progress toward degree completion.

Application Procedures
One of the most important aspects of the financial aid process is to apply for assistance
as early as possible. The application due dates are priority deadlines. Students who
meet the priority deadlines enjoy the security of having their award authorization ready
in time for class registration.
1. You must complete and submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid
(FAFSA) to apply for federal and state financial aid. Complete the application as
early as October 1, 2021, or by priority date of March 1, 2022, or as far in advance
of the starting term as possible. Apply online with FAFSA at www.fafsa.ed.gov.
Be sure to list Capitol Technology University on the FAFSA, School Code 001436,
so the FAFSA information will be electronically forwarded to the university.
A paper FAFSA can be obtained by requesting one from the Department of
Education at 1-800-433-3243.
2. After reviewing your processed FAFSA data, the Office of Financial Aid will send
an award letter listing the awards for which you are eligible.
3. Sign and return one copy of the award letter to the Office of Financial Aid.
Students may also review, accept or decline their financial aid on the MyFA portal.
This portal is located within MyCapitol and is available 24 hours a day from any
location.

Renewal of Financial Aid
Financial aid is not automatically renewed, unless otherwise noted. The entire financial
aid application process must be completed every year in order for your request for
federal, state and institutional aid to be considered.

Enrollment Status for Financial Aid
Undergraduate and Graduate – Federal

6 to 8 credits is considered half-time
9 to 11 credits is considered three-quarter’s time
12+ credits is considered full-time

Undergraduate – Veterans

3 to 5 credits is considered part-time
6 to 8 credits is considered half-time
9 to 11 credits is considered three-quarter’s time

54 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Tuition/Financial Aid

The Capitol Technology University student handbook contains additional information
about financial aid at the university.

•

12+ credits is considered full-time

Graduate – Veterans

•

3 or more credits taken during an 8-week term session is considered full-time
3 to 5 credits taken during a 16-week semester is considered greater than one
quarter but less than half-time
6 or more credits taken during a 16-week semester is considered full-time

Continuing Eligibility
The Office of Financial Aid reserves the right to review or modify financial aid
commitments at any time based on information affecting eligibility. This includes the
availability of funds, changes in financial status, satisfactory academic progress, and
changes in enrollment status.
Return of Federal Funds
Students who have received financial aid awards and withdraw from classes (officially
or unofficially) may be required to return a portion of the federal funds. See the federal
return of funds policy on page 52.
Federal Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Standards
The Department of Education passed a federal satisfactory academic progress policy,
effective July 1, 2011.
This policy applies to both undergraduate and graduate students receiving federal and
state financial aid funds. The financial aid SAP policy is separate from the university’s
general satisfactory academic progress policy.
Under the Federal SAP policy, there are two components: a qualitative SAP component
(Grade Point Average) and a quantitative SAP standard (earned credit hours versus
attempted credit hours). Students receiving federal student aid must be in compliance
with both standards in order to be considered making financial aid satisfactory
academic progress.

Repeated Coursework
A student may repeat any coursework previously taken in the student’s program as long
as the repeated course is not a result of more than one repetition of a previously passed
course.

Undergraduate Student Requirements

Qualitative Standard (Grade Point Average component)
A student’s satisfactory academic progress for financial aid is reviewed at the end of

55 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Tuition/Financial Aid

Quantitative Standard (number of credit hours attempted versus number of credit
hours earned)

Under the quantitative component of the financial aid satisfactory academic progress
standard, an undergraduate student must successfully complete coursework within a
certain time frame. Charts showing the minimum number of credits students must earn
each enrollment period and year of study are listed in the guidelines on the university
website. Incomplete, repeated courses and courses with a grade of “W” are counted
in the qualitative standard. Incomplete grades will become “F” if not resolved within
30 days of the next semester start. Additionally, for an undergraduate student, the
time frame cannot exceed 150% of the published length of the program measured in
academic years or credit hours attempted, as determined by the university. For instance,
if the published length of a student’s academic program is 120 credit hours, the
maximum period must not exceed 180 (120 x 1.5) attempted hours.
To be in compliance, students must complete their credit hours as listed in the
guidelines above.
Failure to meet these standards will place a student on financial aid warning for one
semester. The Financial Aid Office will notify students in writing when placed on warning
detailing the policy and next steps.
A student on financial aid warning will receive financial aid for one more semester.
Before registering for classes, the student must meet with a university advisor to
develop a success plan and to receive approval for courses the student wishes to
register for during the warning period.
A student who fails to meet Satisfactory Academic Progress for two consecutive
semesters (GPA and credit hour) will have his/her financial aid terminated. Students will
be notified in writing and will be offered the option to appeal the termination.

Graduate Student (Master’s and Doctoral) Financial Aid Progress
Requirements
A student’s satisfactory academic progress for financial aid is reviewed at the end of each
semester.
Master’s and Doctoral Degree Students Receiving Federal Student Aid

56 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Tuition/Financial Aid

each semester. A minimum cumulative Grade Point Average of 1.7 for undergraduate
students who have attempted fewer than 30 semester credit hours; a minimum Grade
Point Average of 2.0 for undergraduate students who have attempted 30 semester
credit hours or more or have completed their second academic year, whichever comes
first. Transfer credits are also counted in the earned credit hours. Incomplete, repeated
courses and courses with a grade of “W” are counted in the qualitative standard.
Incomplete grades will become “F” if not resolved within 30 days of the next semester
start.

A student on financial aid warning will have his/her financial aid terminated if the GPA
standard is not met during the warning period.
Financial Aid Termination - Undergraduate and Graduate (Master’s and Doctoral)
Students
An undergraduate or graduate student whose financial aid is terminated following the
warning period will not receive financial aid again unless the student has submitted
an appeal requesting financial aid reinstatement. In the letter of appeal, a student
must explain the reason for his or her poor academic performance and provide
medical documentation or other documents which help to explain any exceptional
circumstances. Mitigating circumstances such as death in family, living arrangements,
financial situations and health are considered.
The student’s letter of appeal and accompanying documentation will be sent to the
university’s Financial Aid Appeals Committee for review. The committee, consisting
of academic advisors and financial aid, review the appeal. The student will be notified
in writing of the committee’s decision. The student will be notified in writing of the
committee’s decision.
If an appeal is granted, the student will be placed in a probationary status for one
additional semester.

Types of Financial Aid
The financial aid program at Capitol Technology University consists of grants,
scholarships, loans and work-study employment. Detailed information about each aid
program is available from the Office of Financial Aid.
Scholarships
The scholarship program at Capitol Technology University is designed to reward
students for their academic accomplishments, leadership qualities or other special
talents. The scholarships come from a variety of sources and donors, and each
scholarship has its own set of criteria and annual value, ranging from $2,000 to full
tuition. Scholarships are available to full-time degree-seeking undergraduate students
enrolled for 12 credits or more per semester. Scholarships do not have to be repaid.
Institutional Scholarships
Each full-time undergraduate degree applicant is automatically considered for
an institutional scholarship when applying for admission to the university. Initial
institutional scholarship notification is sent by the Office of Admissions and is based

57 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Tuition/Financial Aid

Graduate students must maintain a 3.0 Cumulative Grade Point Average. Failure to
meet this standard will place a student on financial aid warning for one semester. A
student on financial aid warning will receive financial aid for one more semester. Before
registering for classes, the student must consult with their advisor on the best course
options.

on prior academic performance and number of honors, AP, or IBA courses taken. For
eligibility requirements, contact the Office of Admissions. All of the scholarships are
annually renewable to recipients who maintain at least a 3.0 GPA and complete 24
credits each year.
Awards range from $10,000 to $12,000. Named in memory of a dedicated member of
the Capitol Technology University Board of Trustees, this scholarship is the highest
offered by the university to new students.
Presidential Scholarship
Awards range from $7,000 to $9,000.
Board of Trustee Scholarship
Awards range from $4,000 to $6,000. The scholarship is named to recognize the service
and support of the university Board of Trustees members.
Capitol Technology University Scholarship
This scholarship is offered to qualifying community college students who are
transferring to Capitol Technology University, with awards ranging from $4,000 to
$10,000.

Corporate and Foundation Scholarships
A number of corporations and foundations have invested funds with the university
to be awarded annually to students meeting criteria specified by the donors, such as
academic merit or financial need. Students who continue to meet the awarding criteria
will be considered for subsequent scholarship awards. Corporate and foundation
scholarships are not automatically renewed.
Interested students must submit a completed scholarship application with a typed
essay on an assigned topic between March 1 and March 30, before the academic year
they want to be considered for a corporate and foundation scholarship. Applications are
available between March 1 and March 30 on the university website under Financial Aid
Office. For a complete listing of corporate and foundation scholarships and eligibility
criteria, please consult the student handbook or visit the financial aid section online.
Maryland State Scholarships
Maryland students seeking Maryland state scholarships must complete the FAFSA by
the March 1 filing deadline.
Students who are residents of other states should check with their state scholarship
agencies for available scholarships, proper application procedures and deadline dates.

Matching State Grant

58 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Tuition/Financial Aid

Richard J. Heiman Scholarship

Beginning fall 2021, Capitol is offering a Matching State Grant to non-Maryland and
District of Columbia residents. Students must apply to their State Higher Education
Agency, submit required documentation, receive an award notification from their state
and forward it to the Office of Financial Aid. Confirmed awards will be matched up to
$5,000 for the award year.

Grants
Grants are available to undergraduate students. Grants do not have to be repaid.
Richard A. Wainwright Grant
This grant provides support for students who have academic ability and demonstrate
financial need. The Richard A. Wainwright Grant is the highest level of institutional grant
offered to the most qualified students.
Pell Grant and Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG)
These grants are funded by the federal government and are awarded by the Office of
Financial Aid to eligible students based on financial need as determined by the U.S.
Department of Education. SEOG funds are limited and awarded to students with the
most need on a first come, first serve basis. To be eligible, students must complete a
FAFSA.
Maryland Part-Time Grant
These grants are funded by the state of Maryland and awarded to Maryland residents
enrolled on a half-time basis. Interested students enrolled on a half-time basis must
complete the FAFSA. Funds are limited.
The Howard P. Rawlings Educational Excellence Awards
These Maryland State grant program funds (Guaranteed Access Grant and Educational
Assistance Grant) are awarded to full-time eligible students who filed their FAFSA before
the state’s March 1 deadline.
Guaranteed Access Partnership Program
The Guaranteed Access Partnership Program (GAPP) provides a matching grant award
to eligible Maryland students who receive a Guaranteed Access (GA) grant and who
enroll at Capitol Technology University as a new undergraduate student. Students who
complete the FAFSA by March 1 will automatically be considered for the GA grant by the
Maryland Higher Education Commission. Additional documentation may be required
before the award can be made. Award amounts for the GA grant and matching GAPP
grant are determined by your financial need and cost of attendance. An eligible student
may receive a GAPP grant equal to the GA grant up to the full cost of tuition and fees.

Loans
Loans are a serious financial obligation that must be repaid. Both undergraduate and

59 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Tuition/Financial Aid

These awards are not renewable and must be applied for each year.

graduate students can apply for loans. Students must be enrolled at least half time (six
credits each semester) and cannot borrow more than their cost of attendance minus
other financial aid received. The Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP)
includes the Federal Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans, graduate PLUS loans
for students, and parent PLUS loans. Students can apply for loans online through the
Department of Education website, www. studentloans.gov, using their FSA ID.
These loans are available if additional funds are needed over and above what you
receive under the federal, state and institutional financial aid programs.

Work-Study Employment
On-campus jobs are available to undergraduate students under the Federal Work-Study
and Capitol Technology University Work-Study programs. These work programs offer
students the opportunity to earn money to meet educational and personal expenses
during the year and to get on-the-job work experience.
Federal Work-Study
Federal Work-Study is funded by the federal government and awarded by the Office of
Financial Aid to eligible students who have filed the FAFSA. It is the policy of Capitol
Technology University that while class is in session during fall and spring, students
cannot work more than 20 hours per week and must be enrolled full-time.
Capitol Technology University Work-Study
Students not awarded Federal Work-Study can consider employment under the Capitol
Technology University Work-Study Program. Funding for this program is provided by
campus departments. Admitted students can contact the Office of Human Resources
for more information. Like the Federal Work-Study program, students are limited to 20
hours per week and must be enrolled full-time.

Other Aid Programs
Private Organizations
In addition to federal, state and institutional financial aid programs, private
organizations offer financial aid funds for a college education.
Many local clubs, religious organizations and other groups provide scholarships for
deserving students. Students should visit their public library to research these possible
sources or contact organizations such as the American Legion, 4-H clubs, Kiwanis,
Jaycees, Chamber of Commerce, Girl Scouts and Boy Scouts. Organizations connected
with family, friends, and fields of interest, such as the American Society of Professional
Engineers or the Society of Women Engineers, are also options.
A scholarship packet has been developed by the Office of Financial Aid to assist
students. It is available for download at the university’s website under Financial Aid
Office and on MyFA.

60 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Tuition/Financial Aid

Alternative Loan Programs

Veterans’ Benefits
To qualify for financial aid, veteran’s benefits or both, students must be enrolled in
a degree program and submit all necessary transcripts. Non-degree students are
not eligible for veteran’s benefits or federal financial aid. Certification and certificate
courses are not eligible for veteran’s benefits or federal financial aid, unless they are
taken as part of an approved degree program. A veteran will not receive educational
benefits for an audited course. Private loan programs can be used for these programs.

Vocational Rehabilitation
As required by 38 USC 3679(e), students (or ”covered individuals”) receiving educational
assistance under Chapter 31 VR&E, or Chapter 33, Post-9/11 GI bill benefits will not be
assessed late payment fees or have a registration hold placed on their account. Covered
individuals receiving chapter 31 or chapter 33 benefits will not be required to secure
alternative or additional funding to cover the VA benefit amount by the tuition due date
and will not be denied access to any school resources due to delayed VA payments.
If the covered individual’s eligibility does not cover the entire assessed amount of tuition
and fees, the student is responsible for the difference in total tuition and fees and the
covered eligibility amount by the university’s posted tuition and fee payment deadline.
To qualify for this provision, students must provide the university with a Certificate
of Eligibility or VR&E equivalent by the first day of class, along with a request for
certification of benefits and any other required information essential to the VA course
certification process.
Additional Information
Course withdrawals (W) after the drop/add period are considered a non-completion
of attempted credit hours. An audit grade is not considered attempted coursework.
Incomplete grades are not included in the GPA calculation nor are they counted as
attempted coursework. When the course is completed and a permanent grade is
assigned the Office of Financial Aid will reevaluate the student’s academic progress.
Students will not receive financial aid for audited courses. The Capitol Technology
University student handbook contains additional information about financial aid at
Capitol Technology University.
Student Complaints
A student who wishes to file a complaint against the university should contact the
Maryland Higher Education Commission, 6 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, MD 21201, 410767-3301, and/or the university’s accrediting agency: Commission on Higher Education,
Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools, 3624 Market Street, Philadelphia,
PA 19104, 215-662-5606.

61 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

A counselor is available to assist veterans, active duty personnel and spouses, and
children of deceased veterans who may be eligible for educational assistance through
the VA. The counselor is located in the Office of Registration and Records.

Undergraduate Studies
Undergraduate Program Offerings
Associate of Applied Science (AAS) Degrees
•
•

Computer and Cyber Operations Engineering
Engineering Fundamentals


Astronautical Engineering
Aviation Professional Pilot
Computer Engineering
Computer Engineering Technology
Computer Science
Construction Information Technology and Cybersecurity
Construction Management and Critical Infrastructure
Counterterrorism
Cyber Analytics
Cybersecurity
Data Science
Electrical Engineering
Electronics Engineering Technology
Engineering Technology
Esports Management
Facilities Management and Critical Infrastructure
Healthcare Administration and Systems Security
Information Technology
Intelligence and Global Security
Management of Cyber and Information Technology
Mechatronics Engineering
Mechatronics and Robotics Engineering Technology
Military Technical Management
Occupational Safety and Health
Professional Trades Administration
Software Engineering
Technology and Business Management
Unmanned and Autonomous Systems

Programs of Study
Capitol Technology University’s programs of study for Associate of Applied Science and
Bachelor of Science degrees are outlined beginning on page 50.
Minors
•

Computer Science

62 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Bachelor of Science (BS) Degrees

• Cybersecurity
• Unmanned and Autonomous Systems
Requirements for undergraduate minors are outlined beginning on page 133.

Undergraduate Certificates
Lower Division

• Acquisitions Management
• Computer and Network Security
• Project Management
• Software Engineering
• Space Missions and Operations Specialist
• Website Development
Requirements for undergraduate certificates are outlined beginning on page 131.

Undergraduate Admissions
Degree-Seeking Students First-Time, Full-Time Freshman
A first-time, full-time freshman is defined as any applicant who has graduated from
high school within one year of the proposed entrance term and is entering Capitol
Technology University on a full-time basis. A full-time student must carry 12 or more
credits per semester.
All Bachelor of Science degrees require a minimum of 27 credits at the 300-level or
above. For descriptions of required courses, see courses beginning on page 211. All
degree-seeking undergraduate students are required to take courses in humanities
and the social sciences to broaden their understanding of professional and ethical
responsibilities within a global context.
Application Requirements
1. File a formal application for admission as far in advance of the proposed
entrance date as possible. An application for admission can be obtained from the
Office of Admissions or online.
2. Enclose a $25 nonrefundable admissions processing fee with the application.
(Applications remain on file for one academic year.) The application fee is waived
for those students submitting electronic applications through the university
website.
3. Forward the official high school transcripts to the Office of Admissions.
4. Submit SAT or ACT scores to the Office of Admissions.

63 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

• Object Oriented Programming
• Programming and Data Management
• Web Programming
Upper Division

Admissions Requirements
All applicants receive a comprehensive evaluation of their previous school records.
Admissions decisions are based on the applicant’s course preparation, high school
grade point average (GPA), class rank and standardized test scores. Scholarship
consideration is given based on GPA test scores, along with the admissions essay,
letters of recommendation and a personal interview.

Students whose GPA, course preparation and/or test scores do not meet the general
admissions requirements may be further considered if they submit an admissions
essay, letters of recommendation, placement tests and visit the campus for a personal
interview.
The minimum GPA required for admission to Capitol Technology University is 2.2 on a
4.0 scale. The minimum SAT score is 800 composite. The minimum ACT score is 17
composite.
Undeclared Applicants
Students admitted to an AAS or BS degree who are undecided on their program study
may complete up to 15 credits before they are required to declare a major. During this
period, their account will reflect the 15-credit hold.
Computer Science and Engineering Applicants
Applicants to the computer science and engineering programs must have an additional
unit of mathematics or entry into college calculus, an additional unit of laboratory
science (physics or chemistry), an overall high school GPA of at least 2.8, and a
minimum SAT score of 900 with at least a 500 on the Math section (or an ACT score of
at least 19).
Computer science and engineering applicants who do not meet these additional criteria,
but meet the general admissions criteria, will be accepted into one of our other degree
programs, such as engineering technology, for their freshman year. After successful
completion of the freshman year, students may transfer into the engineering program
with academic dean approval.
Tuition Deposit
Upon acceptance, all full-time applicants are required to pay a nonrefundable $200
tuition deposit or $200 application/housing deposit to the university. The tuition deposit
is credited to the applicant’s first-semester tuition.

Full-Time Transfer Students
A full-time transfer student is defined as any applicant who is eligible to transfer 15

64 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

High school course preparation should include a minimum of four units of English, three
units of mathematics (including plane geometry and Algebra II), two units of lab science
and two units of social sciences.

or more semester credits from an accredited higher education institution to Capitol
Technology University and will attend on a full-time basis. A full-time student must carry
12 or more credits per semester.
1. File a formal application for admission as far in advance of the proposed
entrance date as possible. An application for admission can be obtained from the
Office of Admissions or online.
2. Enclose a $25 nonrefundable admissions processing fee with paper applications.
(Applications remain on file for one academic year.) The application fee is waived
for those students submitting electronic applications through the university
website.
3. Forward all official transcripts to the Office of Admissions. Applicants who are
completing, or who have already earned, an associate or bachelor’s degree
from a regionally accredited university need only forward university transcripts.
Applicants who have less than 30 college credits must forward an official high
school transcript denoting graduation date or General Equivalency Diploma (GED)
record and college transcripts, if applicable.
4. For transfer credit policies, see page 41 of this catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Full-time transfer applicants who have successfully completed an associate or
bachelor’s degree are generally accepted into Capitol Technology University once
their application file is complete. Admissions requirements for all other students are
based on previous academic coursework (including high school, college, proprietary
institutions, the military or appropriate work experience), with an emphasis on
postsecondary achievement. Students must be in good standing at all previous
institutions. Students not in good standing are subject to further review.
If applicants are not eligible to transfer credits for MA-114 or EN-101, completion
of a skills assessment test may be required. Applicants who are not eligible to
transfer college level math or English credits must take placement tests. Applicants
with experience in computer programming who are not eligible to transfer college
level credits in computer science are encouraged to take placement testing, those
who choose not to take placement testing will register for CS-100. Applicants with
experience in cybersecurity who are not eligible to transfer college level credits in
cybersecurity are encouraged to take placement testing, those who choose not to take
placement testing will register for IAE-201.
All Bachelor of Science degrees require a minimum of 27 credits at the 300-level or
above. For descriptions of required courses, see courses beginning on page 211. All
degree-seeking undergraduate students are required to take courses in humanities
and the social sciences to broaden their understanding of professional and ethical
responsibilities within a global context.

65 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Application Requirements

Part-Time Degree-Seeking Students
A part-time degree-seeking student is defined as any student pursuing an undergraduate
degree at Capitol Technology University on a part-time basis. A part-time student may
carry 1-11 credits per semester.
1. File a formal application for admission as far in advance of the proposed
entrance date as possible. An application for admission may be obtained from
the Office of Admissions or online.
2. Enclose a $25 nonrefundable admissions processing fee with the application.
(Applications remain on file for one academic year.) The application fee is waived
for those students submitting electronic applications through the university
website.
3. Forward all official transcripts to the Office of Admissions. Applicants who are
completing, or who have already earned, an associate or bachelor’s degree from
a regionally accredited college need only forward college transcripts. Applicants
who have less than a degree or no college credits must forward an official high
school transcript denoting graduation date or General Equivalency Diploma (GED)
record and college transcripts, if applicable.
4. For transfer credit policies, see page 41 of this catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Part-time applicants who have successfully completed an associate or bachelor’s
degree are generally accepted into Capitol Technology University once their application
file is complete. Admissions requirements for all other students are based on previous
academic course work (including high school, college, proprietary institutions, the
military or appropriate work experience). Students must be in good standing at all
previous institutions. Students not in good standing are subject to further review.
If applicants are not eligible to transfer credits for MA-114 or EN-101, completion
of a skills assessment test may be required. Applicants who are not eligible to
transfer college level math or English credits must take placement tests. Applicants
with experience in computer programming who are not eligible to transfer college
level credits in computer science are encouraged to take placement testing, those
who choose not to take placement testing will register for CS-100. Applicants with
experience in cybersecurity who are not eligible to transfer college level credits in
cybersecurity are encouraged to take placement testing, those who choose not to take
placement testing will register for IAE-201.
All Bachelor of Science degrees require a minimum of 27 credits at the 300-level or
above. For descriptions of required courses, see courses beginning on page 211. All
degree-seeking undergraduate students are required to take courses in humanities
and the social sciences to broaden their understanding of professional and ethical
responsibilities within a global context.

66 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Application Requirements

Concurrent, Readmit and Other Types of Students
Concurrent Enrollment
Concurrent students are any qualified high school juniors or seniors who want to enroll
in a limited number of courses at Capitol Technology University while completing their
high school graduation requirements. Concurrently enrolled students are not eligible for
financial aid.
1. File a formal application for admission as far in advance of the proposed
entrance date as possible. An application for admission may be obtained from
the Office of Admissions or online.
2. Forward an up-to-date official high school transcript to the Office of Admissions.
3. Forward a letter of recommendation from the high school principal or guidance
counselor.
4. Meet with an admissions counselor at Capitol Technology University for a
personal interview. Students may also be required to meet with the Academic
Dean and/or Dean of Student Life.
Admissions Requirements
Once the application requirements have been completed, the applicant will be
eligible for concurrent enrollment. Concurrent students are required to complete all
prerequisites for courses in which they intend to enroll. Concurrent enrollment is
considered a non-degree-seeking status, so the student will not be accepted into a
specific degree program. If the student wants to apply for degree-seeking status after
high school graduation, the student must complete the application requirements for a
first-time, full-time freshman, outlined on page 55 of this catalog, and should do so as
far in advance of the proposed start term as possible.
Concurrent students who want to enroll in MA-114 or EN-101 may be required to
complete a skills assessment test. Applicants who are not eligible to transfer college
level math or English credits must take placement tests. Applicants with experience in
computer programming who are not eligible to transfer college level credits in computer
science are encouraged to take placement testing, those who choose not to take
placement testing will register for CS-100. Applicants with experience in cybersecurity
who are not eligible to transfer college level credits in cybersecurity are encouraged to
take placement testing, those who choose not to take placement testing will register for
IAE-201.
Readmission
A readmit applicant is defined as any applicant who has previously completed any
amount of coursework at Capitol Technology University, has not attended Capitol
Technology University in at least one full academic year and wants to resume study.
Students who were at any time in violation of the university’s academic, financial

67 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Application Requirements

or disciplinary regulations may be denied readmission. Readmitted students may
be required to submit or resubmit required documents, such as official transcripts.
Readmitted students will enter Capitol Technology University’s degree program
under the current graduation requirements and will be subject to current policies and
procedures. A course audit will be completed to determine what coursework must be
fulfilled for graduation. Readmission is contingent upon an application for admission,
which may be obtained from the Office of Admissions or online, and review by the
admissions staff.
Applicants who do not match any of the undergraduate types discussed herein
should contact the Office of Admissions to determine the application and admissions
requirements that apply. To reach the Office of Admissions, call 800-950-1992 or send
email to admissions@CapTechU.edu.
Certificate Students
An undergraduate certificate student is any student pursuing one or more of Capitol
Technology University’s state-approved undergraduate certificates, maintaining less
than 12 credits per semester and not pursuing a degree. Undergraduate certificate
students are not eligible for financial aid.
Application Requirements
1. File a formal application for admission as far in advance of the proposed
entrance date as possible. An application for admission can be obtained from the
Office of Admissions or online.
2. Enclose a $25 nonrefundable admissions processing fee with the application.
(Applications remain on file for one academic year.) The application fee is waived
for those students submitting electronic applications through the university
website.
3. Forward all official transcripts to the Office of Admissions. Applicants who are
completing, or who have already earned, an associate or bachelor’s degree from
a regionally accredited college need forward only college transcripts. Applicants
who have less than a degree or no college credits must forward an official high
school transcript denoting graduation date or General Equivalency Diploma (GED)
record and college transcripts, if applicable.
Admissions Requirements
Undergraduate certificate applicants who have successfully completed an associate
or bachelor’s degree are generally eligible to register for classes once their application
file is complete. Admissions requirements for all other students are based on previous
academic coursework (including high school, college, proprietary institutions, the
military or appropriate work experience). Students must be in good standing at all
previous institutions. Students not in good standing are subject to further review.
All certificates require that students have completed MA-110, MA-114 or have

68 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Other Types of Students

equivalent experience. All coursework must be completed through Capitol Technology
University. Students must complete the specific courses listed for the certificate; no
substitutions are permitted. Once the course requirements are completed, students
must apply for the certificate in the Office of Registration and Records. A $25
processing fee is due with the certificate request.
A student must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0 in all certificate coursework to
be awarded the certificate.

A non-degree-seeking student is any student pursuing a non-degree certification
program or taking individual courses not applying to a degree. Non-degree study is not
eligible for financial aid.
Application Requirements
Non-degree seeking students must submit an official transcript showing appropriate
degree (i.e. if students are applying for graduate credits, a bachelor’s degree transcript
must be submitted) or completed coursework.
Admissions Requirements
Once the application and processing fee are received, applicants are notified of their
acceptance and may register for classes during the appropriate registration period.
Information about registration is continually updated online.
After successful completion of 15 semester credits at Capitol Technology University,
non-degree students must complete the admissions procedure for degree seeking
status, or receive approval for continued non-degree status from the dean of
academics.

International Students
An international student is defined as any applicant from a country other than the
United States who will be pursuing an undergraduate degree program on a student visa.
Eligibility requirements, listed below, must be met for acceptance. International students
are not eligible for institutional scholarships or federal financial aid.
Application Requirements
1. File a formal application for admission as far in advance of the proposed
entrance date as possible. An application for admission can be obtained from the
Office of Admissions or online.
2. Enclose a $75 nonrefundable admissions processing fee with the application.
(Applications remain on file for one academic year.)
3. Verify that you meet the academic and financial requirements stated below.

69 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Non-Degree-Seeking Students

Academic Requirements
Submit certified transcripts (with English translations) of secondary school
and/or college records, or examination results when periodic grades are not used for
measurement purposes. The university may require that you have your transcripts
evaluated by a recognized credential evaluation service.
Applicants should have two years of college preparatory mathematics, such as algebra,
geometry and trigonometry.

1. TOEFL paper-based test score of 550 or an internet-based test score of 79, or
2. proof of completing a specified level of proficiency at an English language
school, or
3. satisfactory completion of English courses at an accredited university or college
within the United States.
Financial Requirements
International students must submit evidence of sufficient financial resources for
living and educational expenses. Support documents must be dated within the last six
months.
Proof of financial support can be in one of the following forms:
1. A letter of sponsorship or scholarship from a government agency or corporation.
This letter of sponsorship must be an original and outline specific billing
procedures.
2. Complete the declaration and certification of finances form. This form must be
accompanied by supporting bank statements or employment verification. Include
signatures or original letters of support from each sponsor.
Students who have not provided valid evidence of sponsorship from a government
agency or corporation must make a tuition deposit of $500 prior to formal acceptance
and issuance of I-20.
Applicants can expect an answer from the university three to five weeks after receipt
of all necessary documents. All international students must join the university health
insurance program, unless adequate coverage is proven.

70 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

English proficiency for direct admission into a degree program:

Associate Degrees (AAS)
Computer and Cyber Operations Engineering (AAS)
The Associate of Applied Science in Computer and Cyber Operations Engineering
equips students with the cybersecurity skills required to protect computer systems and
networks. The degree provides a firm foundation in network security, digital electronics
and microprocessors, security fundamentals, cryptography and programming.
Course Requirements
Associate of Applied Science 62 Credits
Undergraduate Studies

Course Credits
Technical 27 Credits
CS-150 Programming in C 3
CS-200 Programming in C++ 3
CT-152 Introduction to UNIX 3
EL-100 Introduction to DC/AC Circuits 3
EL-150 DC/AC Circuits and Analysis 3
EL-200 Electronic Devices and Circuits 3
EL-204 Digital Electronics 3
EL-262 Microprocessors and Microassembly 3
NT-150 Computer Networking 3
Cybersecurity 15 Credits
IAE-201 Introduction to Information Assurance Concepts 3
IAE-250 Comprehensive Computer and Network Security 3
IAE-260 Secure System Administration and Operation 3
IAE-325 Secure Data Communication and Cryptography 3
IAE-351 Introduction to Cyber Network Operations 3
Mathematics 11 Credits
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-261 Calculus I 4
Humanities and Social Sciences 9 Credits
EN-101 English Communications 3
Humanities Elective 3
Social Science Elective 3

71 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Engineering Fundamentals (AAS)
The Associate of Applied Science in Engineering Fundamentals provides students
with a foundation in mathematics, physics, electronics, and engineering mechanics.
The degree enables students to enter the workforce as engineering technicians and/or
pursue a bachelor’s degree in a variety of engineering disciplines, including electrical,
computer, mechanical, biomedical, civil, chemical and systems engineering.
Course Requirements
Associate of Applied Science 62 Credits

Electronics and Engineering 30 Credits
EL-100 Introduction to DC/AC Circuits 3
EL-150 DC/AC Circuits and Analysis 3
EL-200 Electronic Devices and Circuits 3
EL-204 Digital Electronics 3
EL-261 Introduction to Communication Circuits/Systems 3
EL-262 Microprocessors and Microassembly 3
MEC-155 Introduction to Materials Science 3
MEC-210 Engineering Mechanics - Statics 3
MEC-215 Introduction to Engineering Design CAD 3
MEC-310 Engineering Mechanics - Dynamics 3
Computer Science 3 Credits
CS-150 Programming in C 3
Mathematics and Science 17 Credits
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-124 Discrete Mathematics 3
MA-261 Calculus I 4
PH-201 General Physics I 3
PH-202 General Physics II 3
Humanities and Social Sciences 12 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
Humanities Elective 3
Social Science Elective 3

72 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Course Credits

Bachelor’s Degrees
Astronautical Engineering (BS)

Students study space systems engineering, orbital mechanics, spacecraft subsystems,
spacecraft attitude and control, autonomous ground systems, as well as other areas of
satellite mission planning, design and operations. Graduates have the ability to work on
multidisciplinary teams, meet the expectations of employers of astronautical engineers,
and pursue an advanced degree, if desired. All students will complete a capstone in
which they propose, design, develop and deliver a satellite mission plan or other spacerelated project.
The Bachelor of Science in Astronautical Engineering is accredited by the Engineering
Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org.
Program Educational Objectives
Within three to five years of graduation,
•

Graduates will be engineers who solve critical technical problems related to
astronautical engineering, and who devise innovative ways to develop and
apply new technologies.

•

Graduates will engage lifetime learning and use this knowledge to become
leaders in astronautical engineering related careers.

•

Graduates will contribute knowledge to and participate in the identification
and solution of problems facing astronautical engineering professionals.

Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Identify, formulate and solve complex engineering problems by applying
principles of engineering, science and mathematics

•

Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with
consideration of public health, safety and welfare, as well as global, cultural
social, environment and economic factors

73 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

The Bachelor of Science in Astronautical Engineering provides students with a balance
between theory and practice. Students receive hands-on design experience via the
university’s high-altitude balloon payload program, course assignments, laboratory
exercises and the Space Flight Operations Training Center. The focus is on spacecraft
and ground systems design rather than research. The program produces skilled
systems-oriented astronautical engineers to support the needs of NASA and the
aerospace industry.

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 120 Credits
Course Credits
Astronautical Engineering 45 Credits

Undergraduate Studies

AE-100 Introduction to Astronomy 3
AE-150 Introduction to Space 3
AE-250 Ground Systems Engineering 3
AE-311 Spacecraft Systems 3
AE-350 Autonomous Ground Systems 3
AE-351 Orbital Mechanics 3
AE-361 Remote Sensing 3
AE-411 Space Systems Engineering 3
AE-451 Propulsion 3
AE-454 Spacecraft Dynamics/Attitude/Control 3
AE-455 Satellite Communications 3
AE-457 Senior Design Project I 3
AE-458 Senior Design Project II 3
Technical Electives 3
Technical Electives 3
Computer Science 3 Credits
CT-206 Introduction to Scripting Languages 3
Engineering 6 Credits
MEC-215 Introduction to Engineering Design CAD 3
EE-453 Control I 3
Engineering Technology 15 Credits
EL-100 Introduction to DC/AC Circuits 3
EL-150 DC/AC Circuits and Analysis 3
EL-200 Electronic Devices/Circuits 3
EL-204 Digital Electronics 3
EL-250 Advanced Analog Circuits 3
Mathematics and Science 30 Credits
MA-261 Calculus I 4
MA-262 Calculus II 4
MA-263 Calculus III 4
MA-330 Linear Algebra 3
MA-340 Ordinary Differential Equations 3
PH-261 Engineering Physics I 4
PH-262 Engineering Physics II 4

74 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

PH-263 Engineering Physics III 4
Humanities and Social Sciences 15 Credits
HU-331 or HU-3 32 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Social Science Electives 3
Social Science Electives 3
Humanities Elective 3

Aviation Professional Pilot (BS)
The Bachelor of Science (B.S.) degree in Aviation Professional Pilot provides the
student with the necessary knowledge and training to become an aviation professional
in the diverse field of Aviation. The program addresses one of the greatest employment
challenges of the 21st century – how to create enough professional pilots to fill the
staggering number of jobs created in the aviation industry due to the burgeoning
demand for commercial and airline pilots. The degree provides a firm foundation
in flight operations, airport operations, safety, risk management, Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) rules and regulations, aviation technologies, and piloting skills.
Graduates of the program will have the knowledge, skills, and FAA certifications
necessary to be employed as a commercial pilot by airlines, governmental agencies, or
corporate employers.
Program Educational Objectives
Within three to five years of graduation,
•

1. Students will critically analyze problems in a variety of disciplines to
identify relevant and useful information to support the attainment of desired
outcomes.

•

2. Students will determine appropriate conclusions by examining the output
of methodological applications in the aviation professional pilot environment.

•

3. Students will conceptualize, apply, and integrate effective strategies to use
information in the decision-making process as an aviation professional pilot.

•

4. Students will apply knowledge in aviation to adapt to emerging aviation
trends.

•

5. Students will conduct themselves professionally and ethically.

•

6. Students will understand and analyze the role of aviation safety and

75 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

English Communications 6 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3

human factors in the aviation industry.
•

7. Students will fly independently and safely operate airplanes for which they
are rated.

Student Outcomes
•

1. Graduates will demonstrate flight proficiency, safety, and procedural skills
to obtain FAA licensure required to secure a position as a commercial pilot or
flight instructor.

•

2. Graduates will apply legal and ethical principles in their career as an
aviation professional pilot.

•

3. Graduates will apply knowledge of aeronautical principles, design
characteristics, and operational limitations to operate aircraft safely in
emergency conditions.

•

4. Graduates will demonstrate traditional and technological techniques of
communicating ideas effectively and persuasively.

•

5. Graduates will demonstrate leadership, teamwork, and managerial skills
in their assigned aircraft and within the aviation industry. f. Graduates will be
able to analyze and assess airline regulations, airport operations, government
regulations, safety requirements, and environmental concerns to plan and
implement appropriate actions as an aviation professional pilot.

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 120 Credits
Course Credits
Aviation Commercial Pilot Core Courses 70 Credits
AVT-101 Aviation History and Development 3
AVT-141 Private Pilot Ground School 3
AVT-142 Private Pilot Flight - Airplane 3
AVT-143 Aviation Weather Services 4
AVT-201 Air Traffic Control Systems 3
AVT-202 Air Traffic Control Operations 3
AVT-241 Instrument Pilot Ground School 3
AVT-242 Instrument Pilot Flight - Airplane 3
AVT-251 Air Transportation 3
AVT-256 Aviation Safety 3
AVT-253 Airport Management 3
AVT-254 Airline Management 3

76 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

Unmanned and Autonomous Systems 6 Credits
UAS-101 Intro to Unmanned and Autonomous Systems 3
UAS-102 Mechanics of Unmanned and Autonomous Systems 3
General Education 41 Credits
CS-100 Introduction to Programming Logic 3
CS-101 Intro to Programming Logic Lab 1
CS-130 Intro to Programming Using Java 3
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
PH-201 General Physics I 3
English, Humanities, and Social Science 24 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
HU-331 Arts and Ideas 3
Humanities Elective #1 3
Humanities Elective #2 3
Humanities Elective #3 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Social Science Elective 3

Computer Engineering (BS)
The Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering teaches students to design and
program computers and computer-based systems, including the latest embedded
technology. The program produces practical design engineers capable of analyzing
the technical needs of society. Students study digital systems, computer organization
and architecture, software design and testing, operating systems and programming
languages, micro-controller systems, and the latest programmable chip technology.

77 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

AVT-301 Certified Flight Instructor Theory - Airplane 3
AVT-311 Aircraft Systems and Components I - Introduction 3
AVT-313 Aircraft Systems and Components II - Turbines and Aerodynamics 3
AVT-325 Crew Resource Management 3
AVT-341 Commercial Pilot Ground School 3
AVT-342 Commercial Pilot Flight - Airplane Single Engine and Multi-Engine 3
AVT-405 Aviation Law 3
AVT-413 Electronic Flight Management Systems 3
AVT-421 Global Navigation and NAVAIDS 3
AVT-457 Aviation Senior Project I 3
AVT-458 Aviation Senior Project II 3

Upon graduation, students will be equipped to integrate hardware and software
solutions to meet systems requirements. All students will complete a capstone in which
they propose, design, build, test and deliver a computer-based system.
Program Educational Objectives
•

Graduates will have successful careers in the field of computer engineering
and provide solutions to challenging problems in their profession by applying
computer engineering theory and principles.

•

Graduates will show commitment to continuing their education to improve
their professional expertise so as to adapt to an evolving work environment.

•

Graduates will demonstrate effective communication capabilities and a
strong commitment to teamwork while working in a diverse cultural and
interdisciplinary environment.

•

Graduates will exhibit a high level of professionalism and ethical
responsibility, and work for the betterment of society.

Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Identify, formulate and solve complex engineering problems by applying
principles of engineering, science and mathematics

•

Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with
consideration of public health, safety and welfare, as well as global, cultural
social, environment and economic factors

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 122 Credits
Course Credits
Prerequisites 15 Credits
EL-100 Introduction to DC/AC Circuits 3
EL-150 DC/AC Circuits and Analysis 3
EL-200 Electronic Devices/Circuits 3
EL-204 Digital Electronics 3
EL-262 Microprocessors and Microassembly 3
Computers/Programming 24 Credits
CS-120 Intro to Programming Using Python 3

78 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Within three to five years of graduation,

CS-150 Programming in C 3
CS-200 Programming in C++ 3
CS-220 Database Management 3
CS-230 Data Structures 3
CS-418 Operating Systems 3
CT-152 Introduction to UNIX 3
IAE-201 Introduction to Information Assurance Concepts 3

Undergraduate Studies

Engineering 24 Credits
EE-304 Digital Design I 3
EE-354 Digital Design II 3
EE-362 Microcontroller System Design 3
EE-364 Computer Architecture 3
EE-404 Large-Scale Digital Design 3
EE-457 Senior Design Project I 3
EE-458 Senior Design Project II 3
Technical Elective 3
Math/Science 32 Credits
MA-355 Numerical Analysis 4
MA-124 Discrete Math 3
MA-261 Calculus I 4
MA-262 Calculus II 4
MA-340 Ordinary Differential Equations 3
MA-345 Probability/Stats for Engineers 3
PH-261 Engineering Physics I 4
PH-262 Engineering Physics II 4
CH-120 Chemistry 3
Humanities/Social Sciences 21 Credits
BUS-174 Intro to Business and Management 3
BUS-301 Project Management 3
HU-331 or HU-332 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Humanities Elective 3
Humanities Elective 3
Social Science Elective 3
English Communications 6 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3

79 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Computer Engineering Technology (BS)

Program Educational Objectives
Within three to five years of graduation,
•

Graduates will have successful careers in the field of computer engineering
technology and provide solutions to challenging problems in their profession
by applying technical knowledge related to the field.

•

Graduates will show commitment to continuing their education to improve
their professional expertise so as to adapt to an evolving work environment.

•

Graduates will demonstrate effective communication capabilities and a
strong commitment to teamwork while working in a diverse cultural and
interdisciplinary environment.

•

Graduates will exhibit high levels of professionalism and ethical responsibility,
and work for the betterment of society.

Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Apply knowledge, techniques, skills and modern tools of mathematics,
science, engineering and technology to solve broadly-defined engineering
problems appropriate to computer systems and associated systems

•

Design systems, components or processes meeting specified needs for
broadly-defined engineering problems appropriate to computer systems and
associated software systems

•

Apply written, oral and graphical communication in broadly-defined technical
and non-technical environment and an ability to identify and use appropriate
technical literature

•

Conduct standard tests, measurements and experiments and to analyze and
interpret the results to improve processes related to computer systems and

80 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

The Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Technology teaches students to
work at the interface between hardware and software, linking digital technology to
computer applications. Students study software design and testing, operating systems,
programming languages, digital systems, computer organization and architecture,
micro-controller systems and the latest programmable chip technology. All students
will complete a capstone course in which they propose, design, build, test and deliver a
computer-based system. The Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Technology
is accredited by the Engineering Technology Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://
www.abet.org.

associated software systems
•

Function effectively as a member as well as a leader of technical teams

Technical 69 Credits
CS-120 Intro to Programming Using Python 3
CS-150 Introduction to Programming Using C 3
CS-200 Programming In C++ 3
CS-220 Database Management 3
CS-230 Data Structures 3
CS-418 Operating Systems 3
CT-152 Introduction to UNIX 3
CT-240 Internetworking with Routers and Switches 3
EE-304 Digital Design I 3
EE-354 Digital Design II 3
EE-362 Microcontroller System Design 3
EL-100 Introductory DC/AC Circuits 3
EL-150 DC/AC Circuits and Analysis 3
EL-200 Electronic Devices and Circuits 3
EL-204 Digital Electronics 3
EL-262 Microprocessors and Microassembly 3
IAE-201 Introduction to Information Assurance Concepts 3
NT-100 Computer Architecture and Construction 3
NT-150 Computer Networking 3
SE-457 Senior Design Project I 3
SE-458 Senior Design Project II 3
TC-319 Network Infrastructure Security 3
Technical Elective* 3
Mathematics and Science 30 Credits
CH-120 Chemistry 3
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-124 Discrete Mathematics 3
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
MA-261 Calculus I 4
MA-262 Calculus II 4
PH-201 General Physics I 3

81 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 120 Credits
Course Credits

PH-202 General Physics II 3

Computer Science (BS)
The Bachelor of Science in Computer Science teaches students to design and program
computers and computer-based systems. The program produces practical computer
system specialists who can apply computer theory and algorithmic principles to
the design of computer-based systems. Students study programming languages,
computational science, algorithms, computer architecture and software engineering.
Other topics include machine learning, data mining, artificial intelligence, humancomputer interaction, intelligent systems, information management and the social and
professional issues associated with the practice of computer science. All students will
complete a capstone course in which they propose, design, build, test and deliver a
computer-based system.
Program Educational Objectives
Within three to five years of graduation,
•

Graduates will be prepared to pursue post-graduate education in computer
science or related fields.

•

Graduates will be prepared for success in technical careers related to
computer science or related fields.

•

Graduates will be prepared to become leaders in fields related to computer
science.

Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Analyze a complex computing problem and to apply principles of computing
and other relevant discipline to identify solutions

•

Design, implement and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given
set of computing requirements in the context of the program’s discipline

82 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Humanities and Social Sciences 21 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
HU-331 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Humanities Elective 3
Social Science Electives (2) 6

Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts

•

Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in
computing practice based on legal and ethical principles

•

Function effectively as a member or a leader of a team engaged in activities
appropriate to the programs discipline

•

Apply computer science theory and software development fundamentals to
produce computing based solutions

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 122 Credits
Course Credits
Computer Science 60 Credits
CS-120 Introduction to Programming Using Python 3
CS-130 Introduction to Programming Using Java 3
CS-150 Programming in C 3
CS-200 Programming in C++ 3
CS-220 Database Management 3
CS-225 Intermediate Java Programming 3
CS-230 Data Structures 3
CS-240 Introduction to Data Mining 3
CS-310 Computer Algorithms 3
CS-305 Android App Development 3 OR CS-330 iPhone App Development 3
CS-360 Text Mining and Natural Language Proccesing 3
CS-370 Computer Vision 3
CS-405 Introduction to Software Design with UML 3
CS-418 Operating Systems 3
CT-152 Introduction to UNIX 3
CT-376 JavaScript 3
CS-250 Introduction to Network Programming Using C 3 OR CS-356 Dynamic Web Page
Development 3 OR CT-406 Web Programming Languages 3
CS-440 Advanced Machine Learning 3
CS-457 Senior Design Project I 3
CS-458 Senior Design Project II 3
Technical 9 Credits
EL-204 Digital Electronics 3
EL-262 Microprocessors and Microassembly 3
EE-364 Computer Architecture 3
Mathematics and Science 17 Credits
MA-124 Discrete Mathematics 3

83 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

•

MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
MA-261 Calculus I 4
MA-262 Calculus II 4
MA-330 Linear Algebra 3
Science 6 Credits
PH-201 General Physics I 3
Science Elective 3

Undergraduate Studies

Humanities and Social Sciences 18 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
HU-331 or HU-332 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Humanities Electives 3
Social Science Elective 3
Electives 12 Credits
Computer Science Electives - 6 Credits
General Electives - 6 Credits

Construction Information Technology and Cybersecurity (BS)
The Bachelor of Science in Construction Information Technology and Cybersecurity
prepares students for the latest technological developments, applications, and
considerations in the construction industry are explored and applied to real-life industry
challenges. Students will learn optimum methods and techniques to define resources,
risks, and threats in order to maintain the protection, safety, and profitability of
construction sites.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Critically analyze problems and to identify relevant and useful information to
support the attainment of desired outcomes.

•

Think critically by drawing appropriate conclusions from examining the output
of the application of cybersecurity tools and related IT.

•

Conceptualize, apply and integrate effective strategies to acquire, store,
analyze, deploy and secure information effectively.

•

Evaluate and employ cybersecurity tactics, techniques, and procedures in
the context of the construction industry IT, computer security, and privacy
regulations.

84 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 121 Credits
Course Credits
Computer Science 15 Credits
CS-120 Intro to Programming using Python 3
CS-200 Programming in C++ 3
CS-220 Database Management 3
CS-230 Data Structures 3
CS-310 Computer Algorithms 3

Undergraduate Studies

Computer Programming 15 Credits
CT-102 Introduction to Internet Applications 3
CT-152 Introduction to UNIX 3
CT-206 Scripting Languages 3
CT-376 Javascript 3
CT-406 Web Programming Languages 3
Critical Infrastructure 9 Credits
CRI-210 Critical Infrastructure I 3
CRI-310 Critical Infrastructure II 3
CRI-410 Critical Infrastructure III 3
Mathematics and Science 22 Credits
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra & Trigonometry 4
MA-124 Discrete Mathematics 3
CH-120 Chemistry 3
PH-201 General Physics I 3
CS-130 Intro to Programing Using Java 3
CS-150 Intro to Programming Using C 3
Construction Management 12 Credits
CM-120 Intro to Construction Management 3
CM-125 Construction Graphics and Plan Reading 3
CM-220 Construction Methods and Materials 3
CM-250 Legal Issues in Construction 3
Construction Software 15 Credits
CTC-200 Construction IT and Cybersecurity Issues 3
CTC-220 BIM and Graphic Software 3
CTC-240 Estimating Software 3
CTC-260 Scheduling Software 3
CTC-280 Construction Project Management Software 3

85 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Humanities, Social Sciences, Management 15 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
HU-331 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Social Science Elective 3

Construction Management and Critical Infrastructure (BS)
The Bachelor of Science in Construction Management and Critical Infrastructure
prepares students for leadership roles in construction management and critical
infrastructure protection. Laboratory work supplements classroom lectures to provide
practical skills. Students gain additional real-world experience through participation
in a required internship. With its comprehensive, management-oriented focus and
critical infrastructure training, the program helps students understand the impact of
construction on the environment and society. All students will complete a capstone in
which they propose, design and develop a construction management project.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Enter employment in the field of construction management and critical
infrastructure in a business sector of choice with a strong understanding of
field concepts, project management process and team management skills.

•

Understand the laws, regulations and customary expectations as they relate
to construction management and critical infrastructure.

•

Demonstrate familiarity with security operations and administration,
demonstrate a working knowledge of infrastructure and operational security.

•

Demonstrate leadership qualities through experiential learning.

•

Apply various techniques and methods to efficiently and effectively plan and
control construction projects.

•

Understand the value of and apply sustainable building practices to optimize
use of available resources.

86 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Cybersecurity 18 Credits
NT-150 Computer Networking 3
IAE-201 Introduction to Information Assurance Concepts 3
IAE-250 Comprehensive Computer/Network Security 3
IAE-260 Secure Systems Administration and Operation 3
IAE-325 Secure Data Communications and Cryptography 3
IAE-402 Introduction to Incident Handling/Malicious Code 3

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 121 Credits

Construction Management 39 Credits
CM-120 Introduction to Construction Management 3
CM-125 Construction Graphics and Plan Reading 3
CM-220 Construction Methods and Materials w/lab to cover II 3
CM-230 Estimating I 3
CM-250 Legal Issues in Construction 3
CM-260 Statics and Strengths of Materials (after math and physics) 3
CM-270 Safety Management 3
CM-301 Construction Project Management 3
CM-330 Estimating II 3
CM-350 Construction Planning and Scheduling 3
CM-375 Mechanical and Electrical Systems 3
CM-380 Environmental Systems 3
CM-450 Management of Field Operations 3
Capstone 6 Credits
CM-457 Internship in Construction Management 3
CM-458 Senior Design Project 3
Critical Infrastructure 9 Credits
CRI-210 Critical Infrastructure I 3
CRI-310 Critical Infrastructure II 3
CRI-410 Critical Infrastructure III 3
Business 9 Credits
BUS-270 Financial Accounting I 3
BUS-283 Managerial Accounting 3
BUS-372 Financial Management 3
Cybersecurity 15 Credits
CS-120 Introduction to Python 3
CT-152 Introduction to UNIX 3
IAE-201 Introduction to Cybersecurity 3
IAE-250 Comprehensive Computer/Network Security 3
IAE-325 Secure Data Communications and Crypto 3
Mathematics and Science 19 Credits
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-128 Statistics 3
87 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Course Credits

Humanities, Social Sciences, Management 24 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
BUS-174 Introduction to Business and Management 3
BUS-200 Business Communications 3
BUS-282 Economics for Management 3
HU-331 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Humanities Elective 3

Counterterrorism (BS)
The Bachelor of Science in Counterterrorism will prepare students to use advanced
counterterrorism skills to help protect people, businesses, infrastructure, proprietary
products and intellectual property. Students will analyze terrorist attack patterns,
employ proven methods of prevention to actively counter radicalization and recruitment,
as well as to develop, detect and promote early warnings against terrorism.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Critically analyze problems in a variety of disciplines and synthesize
relevant information to support the attainment of desired outcomes in
counterterrorism.

•

Identify, formulate, and solve complex counterterrorism problems by selecting
and applying appropriate tools and techniques.

•

Identify weaknesses in modern terrorism processes, communications,
methods, planning, finances, and decision-making in order to develop
optimum solutions.

•

Conceptualize, apply and integrate effective strategies in the counterterrorism
decision-making process.

•

Evaluate executive decisions in the context of the modern terrorism threat
environment to determine the potential impact on resources and desired
outcomes.

•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and global ramifications
of decisions within counterterrorism.

88 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

CH-120 Chemistry 3
PH-201 General Physics 3
UAS-101 Introduction to Unmanned and Autonomous Systems 3

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 121 Credits

Terrorism and Counterterrorism 33 Credits
CTR-101 Nature of Conflict 3
CTR-102 Terrorism 3
CTR-201 Islam in the Modern World 3
CTR-202 Terrorism and Conventional and Improvised Explosive Devises 3
CTR-203 Terrorism and Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Weapons 3
CTR-301 Terrorist Operations 3
CTR-302 Terrorist Threat Assessments 3
CTR-401 Homegrown Violent Extremism (Domestic Terrorism) 3
CTR-402 Violent Ethno-supremacist and Ultranationalist Groups (Worldwide) 3
CTR-457 Counterterrorism Senior Project I 3
CTR-458 Counterterrorism Senior Project II 3
Intelligence/Critical Infrastructure/Cybersecurity/Unmanned and Autonomous Systems
27 Credits
INT-101 Introduction to Intelligence and Global Security 3
UAS-101 Introduction to Unmanned and Autonomous Systems 3
UAS-102 Mechanics of Unmanned and Autonomous Systems 3
IAE-201 Introduction to Information Assurance Concepts 3
IAE-250 Comprehensive Computer and Network Security 3
CRI-210 Critical Infrastructure I 3
CRI-310 Critical Infrastructure II 3
IAE-351 Intro to Cyber Network Operations 3
CRI-410 Critical Infrastructure III 3
Math and Computer Science 25 Credits
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
CS-120 Introduction to Programming using Python 3
CS-220 Database Management 3
CS-240 Introduction to Data Mining 3
CH-120 Chemistry 3
PH-201 General Physics I 3
English, Humanities, and Social Sciences 36 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
HU-121 Arabic I 3
HU-131 Chinese I 3
89 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Course Credits

BUS-101 Introduction to Data Science 3
HU-331 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
BUS-301 Project Management 3
SS-171 Introduction to Psychology 3
HU-220 Critical Thinking 3
BUS-114 Advanced Excel 3

The Bachelor of Science in Cyber Analytics prepares students to meet the needs of
government, industry, and non-profits to evaluate statistical data to determine the state
of the organization’s security posture. These statistics must be combined with relevant
facts specific to the entity, including competitors, market position, and socio-political
factors to determine the threat landscape. The program combines a foundation in
cybersecurity with hands-on project-based coursework, providing analytic experience
that can be applied to a wide range of technology areas. All students will complete a
capstone in which they propose, design and develop a cyber analytics project.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Analyze a complex computing problem and to apply principles of computing
and other relevant discipline to identify solutions

•

Design, implement and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given
set of computing requirements in the context of the program’s discipline

•

Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts

•

Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in
computing practice based on legal and ethical principles

•

Function effectively as a member or a leader of a team engaged in activities
appropriate to the programs discipline

•

Apply security principles and practices to maintain operations in the presence
of risks and threats

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 121 Credits
Course Credits
Analytics 18 Credits
DS-101 Intro to Data Science 3

90 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Cyber Analytics (BS)

Information Assurance 33 Credits
IAE-201 Introduction to Information Assurance Concepts 3
IAE-250 Comprehensive Computer and Network Security 3
IAE-260 Secure System Administration and Operation 3
IAE-321 Applied Wireless Network Security 3
IAE-325 Secure Data Communications and Cryptography 3
IAE-390 Penetration Testing 3
IAE-402 Introduction to Incident Handling and Malicious Code 3
IAE-405 Malware Analysis/Reverse Engineering 3
IAE-406 Digital Forensics and the Investigative Process 3
IAE-457 Senior Design Project I 3
IAE-458 Senior Design Project II 3
Programming and Computer Science 30 Credits
CS-120 Intro to Programming Using Python 3
CS-150 Programming in C 3
CS-200 Programming in C++ 3
CS-220 Database Management 3
CS-230 Data Structures 3
CS-250 Introduction to Network Programming Using C 3
CS-300 Secure Coding 3
CS-418 Operating Systems 3
CT-152 Introduction to UNIX 3
NT-150 Computer Networking 3
Mathematics and Science 16 Credits
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-124 Discrete Mathematics 3
MA-128 Statistics 3
Science Elective (must be AE-150, CH-120, or PH-201) 3
Humanities and Social Science 24 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
BUS-245 Writing and Communication in Data Science 3
HU-331 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Humanities Elective 3
91 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

CS-240 Intro to Data Mining 3
CS-350 Data Visualization 3
CS-360 Text Mining & Natural Lang Proccesing 3
CS-370 Computer Vision 3
CS-440 Advanced Machine Learning 3

Social Science Electives 3
Social Science Electives 3

The Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity prepares students to fill the skills gap in this
growing field. Students gain an understanding of key cybersecurity challenges, including
how to secure information and defend the information systems that store it. The
program also provides a foundation in computer networking and programming. By the
end of the program, students complete coursework that prepares them to pass industry
certification exams, including A+, Network+, CEH, CISSP, and Security+, positioning them
to graduate with industry credentials.
All students will complete a capstone in which they propose, design, build, test and
deliver a computer-based system.
Program Educational Objectives
Within three to five years of graduation,
•

Graduates will be highly sought and will be recognized as having expertise in
their field.

•

Graduates will demonstrate a lifelong commitment to expanding their
professional expertise.

•

Graduateswill continue to demonstrate character and values by making
ethical decisions throughout their professional careers.

•

Graduates will strive for the betterment of society by pursuing their vocation.

Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Analyze a complex computing problem and to apply principles of computing
and other relevant discipline to identify solutions

•

Design, implement and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given
set of computing requirements in the context of the program’s discipline

•

Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts

•

Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in
computing practice based on legal and ethical principles

•

Function effectively as a member or a leader of a team engaged in activities

92 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Cybersecurity (BS)

appropriate to the programs discipline
•

Apply security principles and practices to maintain operations in the presence
of risks and threats

Programming and Computer Science 33 Credits
CS-120 Intro to Programming Using Python 3
CS-150 Programming in C 3
CS-200 Programming in C++ 3
CS-220 Database Management 3
CS-230 Data Structures 3
CS-250 Introduction to Network Programming Using C 3
CS-300 Secure Coding 3
CS-418 Operating Systems 3
CT-152 Introduction to UNIX 3
CT-240 Internetworking with Routers and Switches 3
NT-150 Computer Networking 3
Information Assurance 33 Credits
IAE-201 Introduction to Information Assurance Concepts 3
IAE-250 Comprehensive Computer and Network Security 3
IAE-260 Secure Systems Administration and Operation 3
IAE-321 Applied Wireless Network Security 3
IAE-325 Secure Data Communications and Cryptography 3
IAE-390 Penetration Testing 3
IAE-402 Introduction to Incident Handling and Malicious Code 3
IAE-405 Malware Analysis/Reverse Engineering 3
IAE-406 Digital Forensics and the Investigative Process 3
IAE-457 Senior Design Project I 3
IAE-458 Senior Design Project II 3
Management 9 Credits
DS-101 Introduction to Data Science 3
BUS-174 Introduction to Business and Management 3
BUS-301 Project Management 3
Mathematics and Science 12 Credits
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-124 Discrete Mathematics 3

93 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 120 Credits
Course Credits

MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
Science Elective (must be AE-150, CH-120, or PH-201) 3
Humanities and Social Sciences 21 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
HU-331 or HU-332 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Humanities Electives 3
Humanities Electives 3
Social Science Electives 3
Undergraduate Studies

Electives 12 Credits
General Elective 3
General Elective 3
General Elective 3
General Elective 3

Data Science (BS)
The Bachelor of Science in Data Science enables students to integrate business,
machine learning and decision-making skills. Students learn how organizations function
effectively and obtain a clear picture of how business areas meld to create successful
enterprises. The program prepares students to structure, transform and analyze data to
gain insights that will provide opportunities to improve business intelligence and data
driven decision making. All students will complete a capstone in which they propose,
design and develop a business analytics project.

Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Critically analyze problems in a variety of disciplines and to identify relevant
and useful information to support the attainment of desired outcomes.

•

Think critically by drawing appropriate conclusions from examining the output
of methodological applications of applied analytics.

•

Conceptualize, apply and integrate effective strategies to acquire, store,
analyze and deploy information effectively.

•

Evaluate data management technologies in the context of data quality,
and security and privacy regulations to determine their potential impact on
information resources.

94 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Business Management 33 Credits
BUS-270 Financial Accounting 3
BUS-275 Human Resource Management 3
BUS-279 Introduction to Leadership 3
BUS-289 Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management 3
BUS-301 Project Management 3
BUS-358 Internship 3
BUS-378 Legal Environment of Business 3
BUS-386 Organizational Theory and Behavior 3
BUS-410 Strategic Management 3
CS-457 Senior Design Project I 3
CS-458 Senior Design Project II 3
Analytics 42 Credits
CS-120 Introduction to Programming Using Python 3
CS-150 Programming in C 3
DS-101 Introduction to Data Science 3
CS-220 Database Management 3
CS-240 Introduction to Data Mining 3
BUS-240 Statistical Methods in Data Science 3
BUS-245 Writing and Communication in Data Science 3
BUS-284 Data Identification and Collection Strategies 3
BUS-310 Data Mining for Effective Decision Making 3
CS-350 Data Visualization 3
CS-360 Text Mining and Natural Language Processing 3
CS-370 Computer Vision 3
BUS-443 Marketing Analytics: Decision-Making in the Information Age 3
CS-440 Advanced Machine Learning 3
Mathematics and Science 20 Credits
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
MA-261 Calculus I 4
BUS-247 Quantitative Methods for Business Analytics 3
Science Elective 3
Humanities and Social Sciences 21 Credits
BUS-174 Introduction to Business and Management 3
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
95 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 122 Credits
Course Credits

HU-331 or HU-332 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Humanities Elective 3
Social Science Elective 3
Electives 6 Credits
Computer Science or Mathematics Elective 3
Computer Science or Mathematics Elective 3

The Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering blends theory and practice, directed
at engineering design as opposed to research. The program produces practical design
engineers capable of analyzing the technical needs of society and creates the next
generation of electrical and electronic circuits. Topics covered include circuit theory
and modeling, computer-aided circuit simulation, signals and systems, microwave
engineering, VHDL and telecommunications. All students will complete a capstone in
which they propose, design, build, test, analyze and deliver a working prototype circuit to
meet engineering standards and realistic constraints.
Program Educational Objectives
Within three to five years of graduation,
•

Graduates will have successful careers or engaged in an advanced study in
electrical engineering or related fields.

•

Graduates will continue to adapt to changes in technology and society, and be
effective communicators in their profession.

•

Graduates utilize their EE knowledge and critical thinking skills to participate
in identifying, analyzing, and solving problems facing humankind.

Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Identify, formulate and solve complex engineering problems by applying
principles of engineering, science and mathematics

•

Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with
consideration of public health, safety and welfare, as well as global, cultural
social, environment and economic factors

•

Communicate effectively with a range of audiences

96 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Electrical Engineering (BS)

Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering
situations and make informed judgments which must consider the impact
of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental and societal
contexts

•

Function effectively on a team whose members together provide leaderships,
crate a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks
and meet objectives

•

Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data
and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions

•

Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning
strategies

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 120 Credits
Course Credits
Engineering 63 Credits
EL-100 Introduction to DC/AC Circuits 3
EL-150 DC/AC Circuits and Analysis 3
EL-200 Electronic Devices and Circuits 3
EL-204 Digital Electronics 3
EL-250 Advanced Analog Circuits 3
EL-261 Introduction to Communication Circuits/Systems 3
EL-262 Microprocessors and Microassembly 3
CS-150 Intro to Programming in C 3
EE-304 Digital Design I 3
EE-309 Circuit Design and Simulation 3
EE-359 High-Frequency Circuit Design 3
EE-362 Microcontroller System Design 3
EE-406 Signals and Systems 3
EE-409 Network Analysis and Synthesis 3
EE-453 Control I 3
EE-456 Digital Signal Processing 3
EE-457 Senior Design Project I 3
EE-458 Senior Design Project II 3
EE-460 Electromagnetic Fields 3
EE-461 Communications Theory 3
Technical Elective 3
Mathematics and Science 33 Credits
CH-120 Chemistry 3
MA-261 Calculus I 4

97 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

•

MA-262 Calculus II 4
MA-263 Calculus III 4
MA-340 Ordinary Differential Equations 3
MA-345 Probability and Statistics for Engineers 3
PH-261 Engineering Physics I 4
PH-262 Engineering Physics II 4
PH-263 Engineering Physics III 4

Undergraduate Studies

Humanities and Social Sciences 18 Credits
Bus-174 Intro to Business and Management 3
BUS-301 Project Management 3
HU-331 or HU-332 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Social Science Electives 3
Humanities Electives 3
English Communications 6 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3

Electronics Engineering Technology (BS)
The Bachelor of Science in Electronics Engineering Technology prepares students to
work in a range of practical electronics fields, from circuit analysis and digital design to
control and robotics. The program provides a foundation in electronics technology with
an emphasis on laboratory work. Topics covered include circuit design and simulation,
network analysis and synthesis, transmission lines, micro-system design and fiber-optic
communications. All students will complete a capstone course in which they propose,
design, build, test and deliver a working electronic project.

Program Educational Objectives
Within three to five years of graduation,
•

Graduates will be successfully employed in the field of electronics
engineering technology or related fields, or will be successfully pursuing a
graduate degree.

•

Graduates will have obtained a deep knowledge of the complex electronic
equipment and systems for which they are responsible in their careers.

•

Graduates will be effective communicators, productive team members, or
leaders in a variety of engineering technology roles.

98 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

•

Graduates will demonstrate a high level of integrity, positive work ethic,
and thorough understanding of the ethical obligations and implications
associated with the practice of electronics engineering technology.

Student Outcomes
•

Apply knowledge, techniques, skills and modern tools of mathematics,
science, engineering and technology to solve broadly-defined engineering
problems appropriate to computer systems and associated systems

•

Design systems, components or processes meeting specified needs for
broadly-defined engineering problems appropriate to computer systems and
associated software systems

•

Apply written, oral and graphical communication in broadly-defined technical
and non-technical environment and an ability to identify and use appropriate
technical literature

•

Conduct standard tests, measurements and experiments and to analyze and
interpret the results to improve processes related to computer systems and
associated software systems

•

Function effectively as a member as well as a leader of technical teams

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 121 Credits
Course Credits
Electronics and Engineering 54 Credits
EL-100 Introduction to DC/AC Circuits 3
EL-150 DC/AC Circuits and Analysis 3
EL-200 Electronic Devices and Circuits 3
EL-204 Digital Electronics 3
EL-212 Transmission Lines 3
EL-250 Advanced Analog Circuits 3
EL-261 Introduction to Communication Circuits/Systems 3
EL-262 Microprocessors and Microassembly 3
EL-301 Advanced Communications Circuits and Systems 3
EE-304 Digital Design I 3
EL-307 Noise and Shielding 3
EE-309 Circuit Design/Simulation 3
EE-354 Digital Design II 3
EE-362 Microcontroller System Design 3
EE-409 Network Analysis and Synthesis 3
EE-453 Control I 3
99 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

EE-457 Senior Design Project I 3
EE-458 Senior Design Project II 3
Computer Science 6 Credits
CS-150 Introduction to Programming in C 3
CS-120 Intro to Programming Using Python 3

Undergraduate Studies

Mathematics and Sciences 34 Credits
CH-120 Chemistry 3
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-261 Calculus I 4
MA-262 Calculus II 4
MA-263 Calculus III 4
MA-340 Ordinary Differential Equations 3
MA-345 Probability and Statistics for Engineers 3
PH-201 General Physics I 3
PH-202 General Physics II 3
Humanities and Social Sciences 18 Credits
BUS-174 Intro to Business and Management 3
BUS-301 Project Management 3
HU-331 or HU-332 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Humanities Electives 3
Humanities Electives 3
English Communications 6 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
Electives 3 Credits
General Elective 3

Engineering Technology (BS)
The Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology prepares students for careers in
design, development, manufacturing, analysis, field service engineering, purchasing,
technical sales and management. The program provides a foundation in mathematics,
applied science, circuit analysis, digital and microcontrollers systems and engineering
mechanics. Students use hands- on projects to practice designing, building and testing.
All students will complete a capstone course in which they propose, design, build, test
and deliver a working electronic project.

100 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Student Outcomes
•

Apply knowledge, techniques, skills and modern tools of mathematics,
science, engineering and technology to solve broadly-defined engineering
problems appropriate to computer systems and associated systems

•

Design systems, components or processes meeting specified needs for
broadly-defined engineering problems appropriate to computer systems and
associated software systems

•

Apply written, oral and graphical communication in broadly-defined technical
and non-technical environment and an ability to identify and use appropriate
technical literature

•

Conduct standard tests, measurements and experiments and to analyze and
interpret the results to improve processes related to computer systems and
associated software systems

•

Function effectively as a member as well as a leader of technical teams

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 121 Credits
Course Credits
Technical 60 Credits
EL-100 Introduction to DC/AC Circuits 3
EL-150 DC/AC Circuits and Analysis 3
EL-200 Electronic Devices and Circuits 3
EL-204 Digital Electronics 3
CT-152 Introduction to UNIX 3
CT-240 Internetworking Routers and Switches 3
NT-100 Computer Architecture and Construction 3
NT-150 Computer Networking 3
EL-261 Introduction to Communication Circuits/Systems 3
EL-262 Microprocessors and Microassembly 3
CS-120 Intro to Programming Using Python 3
CS-150 Introduction to Programming in C 3
MEC-155 Introduction to Materials Science 3
MEC-215 Introduction to Engineering Design CAD 3
MEC-370 Electronics and Instrumentation 3
MEC-375 Engineering Safety 3
IAE-201 Introduction to Information Assurance Concepts 3
IAE-250 Comprehensive Computer and Network Security 3
EE-457 Senior Design Project I 3
TC-458 Senior Design Project 3
101 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

Mathematics and Science 22 Credits
CH-120 Chemistry 3
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry4
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
MA-230 Introduction to MATLAB 3
PH-201General Physics I 3
Math or Science Elective 3

Undergraduate Studies

Humanities and Social Sciences 18 Credits
BUS-174 Intro to Business and Management 3
BUS-301 Project Management 3
HU-331 or HU-332 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Humanities Elective 3
Social Science or Business Elective 3
English Communications 9 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
EN-408 Writing Seminar 3
Electives 12 Credits
General Elective 3
General Elective 3
General Elective 3
General Elective 3

Esports Management (BS)
The BS in Esports Management provides a first-rate, cutting-edge education in Esports
operations. Students will learn how to apply core management fundamentals tailored to
the Esports industry and create a go-to-market digital distribution strategy. Students will
understand the nuances and complexities associated with managing Esports teams,
events, and leagues. Students will also use those skills in real-world events before
graduation. The B.S. degree in Esports Management will prepare students for entry-level
positions throughout the exciting Esports industry.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Understand the history of the games industry and the process of creating
games

102 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

•

Apply core business fundamentals, including marketing, finance, and
accounting, to the Esports industry.

•

Develop an Esports go-to-market digital distribution strategy, including trade
shows and other distribution channels

•

Understand the nuances and complexities associated with managing Esports
teams and leagues.

Game Management 18 Credits
GDV-101 Introduction to Games 3
EGA-120 Introduction to Esports Management 3
GDV-230 Working with Unity 3
EGA-340 Convention, Event, and Trade Show Planning 3
EGA-421 Distribution of Games 3
HU-210 Game Design and Theory 3
Business 12 Credits
BUS-174 Introduction to Business and Management 3
BUS-280 Macroeconomics 3
BUS-289 Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management 3
BUS-358 Internship 3
Marketing and Legal 6 Credits
BUS-376 Marketing Principles 3
BUS-378 Legal Environment of Business 3
Leadership and Management 18 Credits
BUS-275 Human Resource Management 3
BUS-279 Introduction to Leadership 3
BUS-301 Project Management 3
BUS-282 Economics for Management 3
BUS-454 International Business 3
BUS-410 Strategic Management 3
Computer Programming 9 Credits
CS-120 Introduction to Programming 3
CS-150 Programming in C 3
CS-220 Database Management 3

103 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 121 Credits
Course Credits

Mathematics and Science 19 Credits
MA-112 Intermediate Alegbra 3
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
DS-101 Introduction Data Science 3
CH-120 Chemistry 3
PH-201 General Physics I 3

Undergraduate Studies

Humanities and Social Science 15 Credits
HU-220 Critical Thinking 3
HU-225 Writing for the Internet 3
HU-331 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-171 Introduction to Psychology 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
English 6 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
Technical Electives 18 Credits
Technical Elective 3
Technical Elective 3
Technical Elective 3
Technical Elective 3
Technical Elective 3
Technical Elective 3

Facilities Management and Critical Infrastructure (BS)
The Bachelor of Science in Facilities Management and Critical Infrastructure teaches
students to manage a variety of facilities management projects. The program pairs
facilities management and cybersecurity skills to prepare graduates to lead in the field.
All students will complete a capstone course in which they propose, design, build and
test a facilities management project.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Critically analyze problems in a variety of disciplines and identify relevant and
useful information to support the attainment of desired outcomes.

•

Think critically by drawing appropriate conclusions from examining the output
of methodological applications in the facilities management and critical
infrastructure environment.

•

Conceptualize, apply and integrate effective strategies to acquire, store,

104 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

analyze and deploy information effectively in the decision-making process.
•

Apply knowledge in facilities management and critical infrastructure to
emerging trends in facilities management.

Cybersecurity 12 Credits
CT-152 Introduction to Unix 3
IAE-201 Introduction to Cybersecurity 3
IAE-250 Comprehensive Computer and Network Security 3
IAE-325 Secure Data Communication and Crypto 3
Business 9 Credits
BUS-270 Financial Accounting I 3
BUS-283 Managerial Accounting 3
BUS-372 Financial Management 3
Critical Infrastructure 9 Credits
CRI-210 Critical Infrastructure I 3
CRI-211 Critical Infrastructure II 3
CRI-212 Critical Infrastructure III 3
Mathematics and Sciences 19 Credits
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-128 Statistics 3
CH-120 Chemistry 3
PH-201 General Physics 3
UAS-101 Introduction to Unmanned and Autonomous Systems 3
Facilities Management 42 Credits
FM-120 Intro to Facilities Management 3
CM-125 Construction Graphics and Plan Reading 3
CM-220 Construction Methods and Materials w/ lab to cover II 3
CM-230 Estimating I 3
CM-250 Legal Issues in Construction 3
FM-260 Facilities Management Leadership & Strategy 3
FM-280 Facilities Project Management 3
FM-301 Facilities Project Management and Finance 3
FM-330 Building Operations and Maintenance 3
FM-350 Facility Information Management and Technology Management 3

105 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 121 Credits
Course Credits

CM-375 Mechanical and Electrical Systems 3
FM-380 Facilities Energy and Sustainability 3
FM-450 Principles of Real Estate 3
FM-460 Facilities Risk Management and Communication

Undergraduate Studies

Humanities, Social Science, Management 21 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
BUS-174 Intro to Business and Management
BUS-200 Business Communications 3
BUS-282 Economics for Management 3
HU-331 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Electives - 9 Credits
Technical Elective 3
Social Science Elective 3
Humanities Elective 3

Healthcare Administration and Systems Security (BS)
As the healthcare industry finds new and innovative ways for managing records,
research data, and patient information, there is a call for professionals who can properly
organize and protect this influx of data. An education in Healthcare Administration and
Systems Security provides students the ability to make decisions to improve the lives of
patients and maintain the information required to support their health needs. Healthcare
and systems security leaders are responsible for planning, directing, and working
closely with medical staff to positively impact patient care. Students will learn about
the business and technology side of healthcare and how health systems management
impacts patients, providers, and payers. Graduates of the program are prepared to
successfully work in the growing field of healthcare administration and systems
security, becoming a vital member of the rapidly growing healthcare community.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Demonstrate knowledge of today’s healthcare system including finances,
quality, regulatory policies and practices and compliance, organization
effectiveness and clinical and support services.

•

Demonstrate knowledge of the U.S. healthcare industry and its delivery
systems, including innovations in how healthcare is delivered.

•

Demonstrate understanding of managerial responsibility in creating

106 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

and maintaining a culture of regulatory compliance (e.g., knowledge of
requirements for reporting privacy breaches, reducing regulatory risks, and
conducting research with human subjects).
Demonstrate competencies in communication, interpersonal relations,
management and leadership.

•

Apply and evaluate the efficacy of information technology in improving patient
care, patient outcomes and creating a safe patient care environment.

•

Demonstrate knowledge of expectations for professional ethics in healthcare
organizations and application of ethical and legal considerations in
assignments, cases, and projects.
Undergraduate Studies

•

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 121 Credits
Course Credits
Business and Management Core 33 Credits
BUS-174 Intro to Business & Management 3
BUS-275 Human Resource Management 3
BUS-279 Introduction to Leadership 3
BUS-280 Macroeconomics 3
BUS-281 Microeconomics 3
BUS-283 Managerial Accounting 3
BUS-301 Project Management 3
BUS-378 Legal Environment of Business 3
BUS-410 Strategic Management 3
BUS-457 Senior Design Project I 3
BUS-458 Senior Design Project II 3
Healthcare Administration Core 18 Credits
HAM-I Health Systems of the United States 3
HAM-II Health Law and Ethics 3
HAM-III Health Data and Analytics 3
HAM-IV Healthcare Finance 3
HAM-V Healthcare Service Operations 3
HAM-VI Healthcare Strategy Capstone 3
Information Technology Core 15 Credits
BUS-250 Database for Managers 3
BUS-362 Information Systems for Managers 3
CS-130 Introduction to Programming Using Java 3
IAE-201 Introduction to IA Concepts 3
IAE-250 Computer & Network Security 3

107 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

General Elective Courses 12 Credits
General Elective #1 3
General Elective #2 3
General Elective #3 3
General Elective #4 3

Undergraduate Studies

Mathematics and Science 22 Credits
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
BUS-101 Introduction to Data Science 3
CH-120 Chemistry 3
PH-201 General Physics I 3
Mathematics or Science Elective #13
Humanities and Social Science 21 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
HU-225 Writing for the Internet 3
HU-331 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-171 Introduction to Psychology 3
SS-220 Critical Thinking 3
SS-351 Ethics 3

Information Technology (BS)
The Bachelor of Science in Information Technology produces programmers who can
design and develop the next generation of technology applications. In addition to
specialized areas such as iPhone application development and JavaScript, students
also learn the fundamentals of computer science, programming, and software design.
All students will complete a capstone in which they propose, design, build, test and
deliver a working software application.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Analyze a complex computing problem and to apply principles of computing
and other relevant discipline to identify solutions

•

Design, implement and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given
set of computing requirements in the context of the program’s discipline

•

Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts

108 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in
computing practice based on legal and ethical principles

•

Function effectively as a member or a leader of a team engaged in activities
appropriate to the programs discipline

•

Identify and analyze user need and to take them into account in the selection,
creation, integration and administration of computing-based systems

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 121 Credits
Course Credits
Computer Science and Web 54 Credits
CS-120 Intro to Programming Using Python 3
CS-130 Introduction to Programming Using Java 3
CS-150 Introduction to Programming in C 3
CS-220 Database Management 3
CS-225 Intermediate Java Programming 3
CS-230 Data Structures 3
NT-150 Computer Networking 3
CT-102 Introduction to Internet Applications 3
CT-152 Introduction to UNIX 3
CT-206 Scripting Languages 3
CT-376 JavaScript 3
CT-406 Web Programming Languages 3
IAE-201 Introduction to Information Assurance Concepts 3
IAE-250 Comprehensive Computer and Network Security 3
IAE-311 Mobile Computing Security 3
SE-321 Human Computer Interaction 3
SE-457 Senior Design Project I 3
SE-458 Senior Design Project II 3
Business 9 Credits
BUS-174 Introduction to Business Management 3
BUS-208 E-Commerce and the Law 3
BUS-289 Entrepreneurship/Small Business Management 3
Mathematics and Sciences 16 Credits
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-124 Discrete Mathematics 3
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
PH-201 General Physics I 3
PH-202 General Physics II 3

109 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

•

Electives 15 Credits
General Elective 3
General Elective 3
General Elective 3
General Elective 3
General Elective 3

Intelligence and Global Security (BS)
The international and national security threats of today’s world are multidimensional
in nature. They require professionals with a broad range of expertise in managing and
producing solutions within the scope of economics, politics, cybersecurity, and social
aspects for the private and public sectors, as well as the military, to perform their duties.
The Intelligence and Global Security degree will provide students a comprehensive
and multidisciplinary understanding of the confluence of threats posed by terrorist
groups, lone actors, para-military guerrilla groups, rogue states’ regular armies,
cyber criminals (including state actors and terrorists), climate change, governance
breakdowns, and public health threats, such as the naturally occurring biological-based
infectious diseases (e.g., COVID-19 pandemic). With the university’s unique curriculum
in counterterrorism, cyber security, computer science, critical infrastructure, and others,
this program will enable the graduating students to apply theoretical, conceptual, and
practical real-world skills in intelligence and security studies.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Integrate and synthesize theories about the roles of intelligence in national
and global security.

•

Utilize legal frameworks in conducting intelligence operations, whether
domestically or globally.

•

Utilize the disciplines of Computer Science, Critical Infrastructure protection,

110 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Humanities and Social Sciences 27 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
HU-210 Game Design Theory 3
HU-331 or HU-332 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Social Sciences or Management Electives 3
Social Sciences or Management Electives 3
Humanities Electives 3
Humanities Electives 3

Cybersecurity, Mathematics and other technological and engineering
methodologies to solve complex security problems.
•

Formulate intelligence indicators and apply structured analytic methodologies
and tools to examine global security subjects.

•

Develop and implement relevant intelligence analytic products that are used
in intelligence studies.

Intelligence and Global Security Core 24 Credits
INT-101 Introduction to Intelligence and Global Security 3
INT-110 Theories of International Relations 3
INT-120 Global Threats and Challenges 3
INT-130 Components of National Power 3
INT-140 The Intelligence Community, Intelligence Processes, and Intelligence Analytic
Methods in Global Security 3
INT-200 Intelligence Software Tools in Global Security 3
INT-400 Seminar in Intelligence and Global Security I 3
INT-410 Seminar in Intelligence and Global Security II 3
Nature of Conflict and Military Warfare 3 Credits
CTR-101 Nature of Conflict and Military Warfare 3
Terrorism and Counterterrorism 6 Credits
CTR-102 Terrorism and Counterterrorism 3
CTR-302 Terrorist Risk Assessments 3
Comparative Homeland Security 3 Credits
CTR-240 Comparative Homeland Security 3
Comparative Cyber Security 3 Credits
CTR-250 Comparative Cyber Security 3
Language Courses 3 Credits - Students select one of the following courses
HU-121 Arabic I 3
HU-122 French I 3
HU-123 Russian I 3
HU-124 Spanish I 3
Critical Infrastructure 9 Credits

111 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 121 Credits
Course Credits

CRI-210 Critical Infrastructure I 3
CRI-211 Critical Infrastructure II 3
CRI-212 Critical Infrastructure III 3

Cybersecurity 12 Credits
NT-150 Computer Networking 3
IAE-201 Introduction to Information Assurance Concepts 3
IAE-250 Comprehensive Computer and Network Security 3
IAE-351 Intro to Cyber Network Operations 3
Mathematics 10 Credits
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
Science 6 Credits
CH-120 Chemistry 3
PH-201 General Physics I 3
Business 3 Credits
BUS-301 Project Management 3
Humanities and Social Sciences 30 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
SS-171 Introduction to Psychology 3
SS-175 Introduction to Sociology 3
HU-220 Critical Thinking 3
HU-225 Writing for the Internet 3
HU-331 Arts and Ideas 3
Humanities Elective #1 3
Humanities Elective #2 3
SS-351 Ethics 3

Management of Cyber and Information Technology (BS)
The Bachelor of Science in Management of Cyber and Information Technology prepares
students for positions in cybersecurity or business that use sophisticated information

112 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Computer Science 9 Credits
CS-120 Introduction to Programming Using Python 3
CS-220 Database Management 3
CS-240: Introduction to Data Mining 3

resources. The program produces systems thinkers with both management expertise
and technical competence. Students learn about the demands of technical jobs and
how to facilitate an efficient working environment. Students study the principles of
management, organizational behavior, production, business telecommunications
analysis and marketing. All students will complete a capstone course in which they
propose, design, test and deliver a management project.
Student Outcomes
•

Explain the major concepts in the functional areas of the degree program

•

Demonstrate a working knowledge of cyber security

•

Explain and evaluate possible economic, social, legal, ethical, and
environmental impacts of their business solutions in a global environment

•

Describe the global business environment

•

Employ decision-support tools to business decision-making

•

Demonstrate a mastery of traditional and technological techniques of
communicating ideas effectively and persuasively

•

Collaborate with a team of colleagues on diverse projects

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 120 Credits
Course Credits
Business Fundamentals 18 Credits
BUS-101 Introduction to Data Science 3
BUS-174 Introduction to Business and Management 3
BUS-200 Business Communications 3
BUS-275 Human Resource Management 3
BUS-280 Macroeconomics or BUS-281 Microeconomics 3
BUS-282 Economics for Management 3
Business Administration 24 Credits
BUS-208 Internet and the Law 3
BUS-279 Introduction to Leadership 3
BUS-301 Project Management 3
BUS-378 Legal Environment of Business 3
BUS-410 Strategic Management 3
BUS-454 International Business 3
BUS-457 Senior Design Project I 3
113 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

Information Technology 33 Credits
BUS-250 Database for Managers 3
BUS-362 Information Systems for Managers 3
CT-152 Introduction to UNIX 3
CS-130 Introduction to Programming Using Java 3
CS-150 Introduction to Programming in C 3
IAE-201 Introduction to Information Assurance Concepts 3
IAE-250 Comprehensive Computer and Network Security 3
IAE-260 Secure Systems Administration UNIX and Operation 3
IAE-325 Secure Data Communications Cryptography 3
IAE-402 Introduction to Incident Handling and Malicious Code 3
NT-100 Computer Architecture and Construction 3
Mathematics and Science 15 Credits
BUS-283 Managerial Accounting 3
MA-110 Business Management Mathematics I 3
MA-111 Business Management Mathematics II 3
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
Science Elective 3
Humanities and Social Sciences 18 Credits
HU-331 or HU-332 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Humanities Electives 3
Humanities Electives 3
Social Science Electives 3
Social Science Electives 3
English Communications 6 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
Electives 6 Credits
Technical Electives 3
Technical Electives 3

Mechatronics Engineering (BS)
The Bachelor of Science in Mechatronics Engineering enables students to become
a professional in the multidisciplinary field. The program provides instruction and
hands-on experience with mechanical systems, electronics, systems engineering and

114 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

BUS-458 Senior Design Project II 3

automation. Students study engineering mechanics, kinematics, fluid mechanics,
instrumentation, circuit analysis, safety and power systems engineering. Graduates
have the ability to work as part of a multidisciplinary team, combine different systems to
develop a solution for a real-world problem, or design and build an integrated system.
Student Outcomes
•

Identify, formulate and solve complex engineering problems by applying
principles of engineering, science and mathematics

•

Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with
consideration of public health, safety and welfare, as well as global, cultural
social, environment and economic factors

•

Communicate effectively with a range of audiences

•

Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering
situations and make informed judgments which must consider the impact
of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental and societal
contexts

•

Function effectively on a team whose members together provide leaderships,
crate a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks
and meet objectives

•

Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data
and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions

•

Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning
strategies

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 120 Credits
Course Credits
Mechatronics 33 Credits
MEC-155 Intro to Materials Science 3
MEC-210 Engineering Mechanics - Statics 3
MEC-215 Intro to Engineering Design CAD 3
MEC-220 Principles of Mechatronics 3
MEC-310 Engineering Mechanics - Dynamics 3
MEC-330 Fluid Mechanics 3
MEC-370 Electronics and Instrumentation 3
MEC-375 Engineering Safety 3
MEC-410 Kinematics and Dynamics of Machinery 3
115 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

Electronics and Engineering 27 Credits
EL-100 Intro to DC/AC Circuits 3
EL-150 DC/AC Circuits and Analysis 3
EL-200 Electronic Devices and Circuits 3
EL-204 Digital Electronics 3
EL-262 Microprocessors and Microassembly 3
EE-285 Programmable Logic Controllers and Networks 3
EE-340 Systems Engineering 3
EE-353 Power Systems Engineering 3
EE-453 Control I 3
Computer Science 6 Credits
CS-120 Intro to Programming Using Python 3
CS-150 Programming in C 3
Mathematics and Science 30 Credits
MA-261 Calculus I 4
MA-262 Calculus II 4
MA-340 Ordinary Differential Equations 3
PH-261 Engineering Physics I 4
PH-262 Engineering Physics II 4
Humanities, Social Sciences, and Management 24 Credits
BUS-174 Intro the Business and Management
BUS-301 Project Management 3
CH-120 Chemistry 3
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
HU-331 Arts and Ideas 3
MA-263 Calculus III 3
PH-263 Engineering Physics III 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Social Science Elective 3
Humanities Electives 3

Mechatronics and Robotics Engineering Technology (BS)
The Bachelor of Science in Mechatronics and Robotics Engineering teaches students
modeling methods, systems engineering and practical applications of mechatronics
and robotics. The program produces engineers with the skills to create economic,

116 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

MEC-455 Mechatronics System Design 3
MEC-462 Automation Systems Design 3

reliable and simplified systems. Students gain a foundation in circuit design and
analysis, systems and control engineering, and develop an understanding of complex
mechatronic and robotics systems. Students complete courses in robotics systems
engineering and analysis, digital electronics, control theory, power systems engineering,
and automation systems design, which enable them to build and design integrated
systems. All students will complete a capstone in which they propose, design, build, test
and deliver a computer-based system.
Student Outcomes
•

Apply knowledge, techniques, skills and modern tools of mathematics,
science, engineering and technology to solve broadly-defined engineering
problems appropriate to computer systems and associated systems

•

Design systems, components or processes meeting specified needs for
broadly-defined engineering problems appropriate to computer systems and
associated software systems

•

Apply written, oral and graphical communication in broadly-defined technical
and non-technical environment and an ability to identify and use appropriate
technical literature

•

Conduct standard tests, measurements and experiments and to analyze and
interpret the results to improve processes related to computer systems and
associated software systems

•

Function effectively as a member as well as a leader of technical teams

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 122 Credits
Course Credits
Mechatronics 30 Credits
MEC-155 Introduction to Materials Science 3
MEC-210 Engineering Mechanics - Statics 3
MEC-215 Introduction to Engineering Design CAD 3
MEC-220 Principles of Mechatronics 3
MEC-310 Engineering Mechanics - Dynamics 3
MEC-370 Electronics and Instrumentation 3
MEC-375 Engineering Safety 3
MEC-410 Kinematics and Dynamics of Machinery 3
MEC-455 Mechatronic System Design 3
MEC-462 Automation Systems Design 3

117 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

Electronics and Engineering 27 Credits
EL-100 Introduction to DC/AC Circuits 3
EL-150 DC/AC Circuits and Analysis 3
EL-200 Electronic Devices and Circuits 3
EL-204 Digital Electronics 3
EL-262 Microprocessors and Assembly 3
EE-285 Programmable Logic Controllers and Networks 3
EE-340 Systems Engineering 3
EE-353 Power Systems Engineering 3
EE-453 Control I 3
Computer Science 6 Credits
CS-120 Intro to Programming Using Python 3
CS-150 Programming in C 3
Mathematics and Science 29 Credits
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
MA-261 Calculus I 4
MA-262 Calculus II 4
MA-340 Ordinary Differential Equations 3
PH-261 Engineering Physics I 4
PH-262 Engineering Physics II 4
Humanities, Social Sciences, and Management 18 Credits
BUS-174 Intro to Business and Management 3
BUS-301 Project Management 3
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
HU-331 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3

Military Technical Management (BS)
Our military technical management program prepares students to gain the
administrative abilities needed to thrive as a leader in a military technical field. The

118 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Robotics 12 Credits
ROB-100 Introduction to Robotics 3
ROB-200 Robotics Systems Engineering and Analysis 3
ROB-300 Industrial Robotics 3
ROB-382 Robotics Systems 3

program will introduce the analytics and decision-making required for successful
skilled military technical administration. Students learn how skilled military technical
management personnel function effectively and obtain knowledge of the administrative
activities to support military technical functions. The program prepares students to deal
with all the regulatory requirements unique to the technical areas.
Program Educational Objectives
•

Graduates will evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and ethical
impact of military technical management decisions.

•

Graduates will select resourcing for skilled professionals.

•

Graduates will utilize the latest technology tools in successful military
technical management.

•

Graduates will support the needs of customers within skilled professionals at
a high-quality level.

•

Graduates will work within skilled professional administrative constraints to
ensure profitability.

Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to demonstate the ability to
•

demonstrate knowledge in skilled military technical management.

•

distinguish the unique features of skilled military technical management from
the broader business and management fields.

•

determine the best techniques to be applied to skilled military technical
management.

•

evaluate resourcing decisions for skilled military technical management.

•

create a comprehensive administrative plan for skilled professionals.

•

integrate the latest technology into skilled professional administrative
decisions.

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 121 Credits
Course Credits
Military Technical Management Core Courses 39 Credits

119 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Within three to five years of graduation,

Elective 42 Credits
Elective (14) 3
Physical Science 6 Credits
CH-120 Chemistry 3
PH-201 General Physics I 3
Mathematics & Data Science 13 Credits
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra & Trigonometry 4
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
BUS-101 Introduction to Data Science 3
English Composition and Communications 6 Credits
EN-101 English Communications 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
Humanities / Social Science 15 Credits
SS-171 Introduction to Psychology 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
HU-220 Critical Thinking 3
HU-225 Writing for the Internet 3
HU-331 Arts and Ideas 3

Occupational Safety and Health (BS)
The Bachelor of Science in Occupational Safety and Health is recognized as a Qualified
Academic Program (QAP) by the Board of Certified Safety Professionals (BCSP),
meeting the qualified credential requirement for the Certified Safety Professional (CSP)

120 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

BUS-174 Intro to Business/Management 3
BUS-200 Business Communications 3
BUS-275 Human Resource Management 3
BUS-279 Introduction to Leadership 3
BUS-282 Foundations of Economics 3
BUS-283 Managerial Accounting 3
BUS-289 Entrepreneurship in Small Business Management 3
BUS-301 Project Management 3
BUS-362 Information Systems for Managers 3
BUS-376 Marketing Principles 3
BUS-378 Legal Environment of Business 3
BUS-410 Strategic Management 3
BUS-454 International Business 3

certification. You will acquire a strong foundation in safety, risk management, and
management skills.
Student Outcomes
•

understand ethical and professional responsibilities of the construction
safety professional and the impact of technical and/or scientific solutions
of professional actions or inactions in global, economic, environmental, and
societal contexts.

•

identify and describe the fundamental aspects of construction safety and
occupational safety and health.

•

employ traditional and technological techniques of communicating
ideas effectively and persuasively in the occupational health and safety
environment in construction.

•

apply science knowledge and solve problems using algebra, statistics, human
physiology and anatomy, physics, chemistry, as it pertains to the practice of
professional safety in the construction industry.

•

design and conduct experiments, and to analyze and interpret data pertinent
to the construction safety, industrial hygiene, and occupational health
disciplines.

•

identify, describe, and apply the fundamental aspects of construction safety
and health management.

•

identify, describe, and apply the fundamental aspects of regulatory
compliance, industrial hygiene, environmental management, fire safety,
ergonomics, hazardous material management, emergency management,
safety management systems, and adult training/education.

•

anticipate, recognize, evaluate, and develop control strategies for hazardous
conditions and work practices.

•

identify and apply business and risk management concepts as part of a
comprehensive construction safety and health management program.

•

identify and apply applicable standards, regulations, and codes in the
construction safety and health discipline.

•

demonstrate a comprehensive knowledge of contemporary construction
safety and health issues and the impacts of risk-based safety solutions within
a global and societal context.

•

formulate or design a construction safety system, process, procedure, or
program to meet a company needs.

121 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to demonstate the ability to

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 121 Credits
Course Credits

Undergraduate Studies

Safety 42 Credits
SAF-100 Construction Safety Regulations 3
SAF-120 EM385 and DOD Construction 3
SAF-214 Hazardous Materials 3
SAF-216 Fire Prevention and Protection 3
SAF-300 Industrial Hygiene I 3
SAF-302 Industrial Hygiene II 3
SAF-304 Ergonomics 3
SAF-316 Safety Management Systems 3
SAF-318 Training and Adult Education 3
SAF-400 Environmental Permitting and Management 3
SAF-402 Construction Safety Management 3
SAF-414 Construction Risk Management 3
SAF-416 Current Issues in Construction Safety 3
SAF-455 Construction Safety Senior Project 3
Construction 12 Credits
CM-120 Intro to Construction Management 3
CM-125 Construction Graphics and Plan Reading 3
CM-220 Construction Methods and Materials 3
CM-250 Legal Issues in Construction 3
Electives 27 Credits
Business or Technical Elective 3
Business or Technical Elective 3
Business or Technical Elective 3
Business or Technical Elective 3
Business or Technical Elective 3
Business or Technical Elective 3
Business or Technical Elective 3
Business or Technical Elective 3
Business or Technical Elective 3
Mathematics and Sciences 16 Credits
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
CH-120 Chemistry 3
PH-201 General Physics 3

122 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Professional Trades Administration (BS)
The BS in Professional Trades Administration degree focuses on developing business
skills for individuals working the industrial trades who want to start and manage
their own businesses. This program introduces the analytics and decision making for
successful skilled professionals that either want to complete a bachelors’ degree or
gain skills leading to opening their own business. Business courses such as accounting,
finance, human resource, legal issues, project management, business writing, and
more will provide a solid foundation for those wishing to expand on their expertise in
addition to trade skill. This degree is transfer credit friendly which will be excellent for
those who have completed technical courses such as NCCER Certification, community
college applied technical courses, and accredited apprenticeship programs and want to
leverage that training to help earn a bachelor’s degree.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Demonstrate knowledge in skilled professional trades administration

•

Distinguish the unique features of skilled professional trades administration
from the broader business and management fields

•

Determine the best techniques to be applied to skilled professional trades
administration

•

Evaluate resourcing decisions for skilled professional trades administration

•

Create a comprehensive administrative plan for skilled professional trades

•

Integrate the latest technology into skilled professional trades administrative
decisions

123 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Humanities, Social Science, Management 24 Credits
BUS-200 Business Communications 3
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
HU-331 Arts and Ideas 3
Humanities Elective 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Social Science Elective 3
Social Science Elective 3

Business and Management 39 Credits
BUS-174 Introduction to Business Management
BUS-200 Business Communications
BUS-275 Human Resource Management 3
BUS-279 Introduction to Leadership 3
BUS-282 Economics Management 3
BUS-283 Managerial Accounting 3
BUS-289 Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management 3
BUS-301 Project Management 3
BUS-362 Information Systems for Managers 3
BUS-376 Marketing Principles 3
BUS-378 Legal Environment of Business 3
BUS-410 Strategic Management 3
BUS-454 International Business 3
Mathematics & Data Science 19 Credits
MA-112 Intermediate Algebra 3
MA-114 Algebra & Trigonometry 4
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
DS-101 Introduction to Data Science 3
CH-120 Chemistry 3
PH-201 General Physics I 3
Electives 42 Credits
Technical Elective (CM-120, FM-120, INT-101, or NT-150) 3
Technical Elective (CM-125, CT-152, or CRT-101) 3
Technical Elective (IAE-201, SAF-120, SAF-214, CM-220, or CRT-201) 3
Technical Elective (CS-220, CM-250, or CRT-202) 3
Technical Elective (CS-230, SAF-300, CM-270, or CRT-203) 3
Technical Elective (CM-230, CS-120, CS-220, CS-230, SAF-318, or SAF-304) 3
Technical Elective (UAS-101, CM-260, IAE-321, or IAS-250) 3
Technical Elective (IAE 402, CM-350, FM-350, or IAS-311) 3
Technical Elective (IAE-390, CM-380, or SAF-400) 3
Technical Elective (IAE-325, SAF-402, or CRI-310) 3
Technical Elective (CRI-410 or SAF-414) 3
Technical Elective (IAE-406 or CRT-401) 3
Technical Elective (CRT-302 or SAF-416) 3
Technical Elective (IAE-406 or CRT-401) 3
Humanities and Social Sciences 21 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
124 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 121 Credits
Course Credits

EN-102 English Communications II 3
HU-220 Critical Thinking 3
HU-225 Writing for the Internet 3
HU-331 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-171 Introduction to Psychology 3
SS-351 Ethics 3

The Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering teaches students to design and
program computers and computer-based systems. The program produces practical
software engineers who can analyze and determine the needs of a system and apply
engineering principles to create software and hardware solutions. Students study
modern programming languages, algorithm development, software design and testing,
as well as computer organization and architecture, micro-controller system design,
programmable chip technology, and knowledge acquisition using UML. All students will
complete a capstone in which they propose, design, build, test and deliver a working
software application.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Identify, formulate and solve complex engineering problems by applying
principles of engineering, science and mathematics

•

Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with
consideration of public health, safety and welfare, as well as global, cultural
social, environment and economic factors

•

Communicate effectively with a range of audiences

•

Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering
situations and make informed judgments which must consider the impact
of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental and societal
contexts

•

Function effectively on a team whose members together provide leaderships,
crate a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks
and meet objectives

•

Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data
and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions

•

Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning
strategies

125 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Software Engineering (BS)

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 120 Credits
Course Credits

Programming and Computer Science 42 Credits
CS-120 Intro to Programming Using Python 3
CS-130 Introduction to Programming Using Java 3
CS-150 Introduction to Programming in C 3
CS-200 Programming in C++ 3
CS-250 Introduction to Network Programming with C 3 OR CS-356 Dynamic Web Page
Development 3 OR CT-406 Web Programming Languages 3
CS-220 Database Management 3
CS-225 Intermediate Java Programming 3
CS-230 Data Structures 3
CS-310 Computer Algorithms 3
CS-330 iPhone App Development 3 OR CS-305 Android App Development 3
CS-405 Introduction to Software Design with UML 3
CS-418 Operating Systems 3
CT-152 Introduction to UNIX 3
CT-376 JavaScript 3
Engineering 21 Credits
SE-351 Software Testing 3
CS-406 Requirements/Resource Analysis 3
CS-452 Agile Methods 3
SE-321 Human Computer Interaction 3
SE-457 Senior Design Project I 3
SE-458 Senior Design Project II 3
Software Elective 3
Mathematics and Science 30 Credits
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-124 Discrete Mathematics 3
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
MA-261 Calculus I 4
MA-262 Calculus II 4
PH-201 General Physics I 3
PH-202 General Physics II 3
Math or Science Elective 3
Math or Science Elective 3

126 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Technical Pre-requisites 6 Credits
EL-204 Digital Electronics 3
EL-262 Microprocessors and Microassembly 3

Humanities and Social Sciences 15 Credits
HU-331 or HU-332 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Social Science Electives 3
Social Science Electives 3
Humanities Electives 3

Technology and Business Management (BS)
The Bachelor of Science in Technology and Business Management provides students
with the skills needed to make sound business decisions. The program enables
students to gain an understanding of how organizations operate. Students learn how
functional business areas work together to achieve success in a global environment.
Topics include marketing, accounting, finance, information technology, and human
resource management. All students will complete a capstone in which they propose,
design and test a technology-based system.

Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Explain the major concepts in the functional areas of core business courses

•

Explain and evaluate possible economic, social, legal, ethical, and
environmental impacts of their business solutions in a global environment

•

Describe the global business environment

•

Employ decision support tools to business decision-making

•

Demonstrate a mastery of traditional and technological techniques of
communicating ideas effectively and persuasively

•

Demonstrate knowledge as it relates to the Technology and Business
Management program’s core courses in an integrated manner within a global
business environment

127 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

English Communications 6 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3

Business Fundamentals 27 Credits
BUS-101 Introduction to Data Science 3
BUS-174 Introduction to Business and Management 3
BUS-275 Human Resource Management 3
BUS-279 Introduction to Leadership 3
BUS-280 Macroeconomics 3
BUS-281 Microeconomics 3
BUS-282 Economics for Management 3
BUS-289 Entrepreneurship and small Business Management 3
BUS-391 E-Commerce 3
Business Administration 24 Credits
BUS-208 E-Commerce and the Law 3
BUS-376 Marketing Principles 3
BUS-378 Legal Environment 3
BUS-393 Consumer Analysis 3
BUS-410 Strategic Management 3
BUS-454 International Business 3
BUS-457 Senior Design Project I 3
BUS-458 Senior Design Project II 3
Information Technology 12 Credits
BUS-250 Database for Managers 3
BUS-301 Project Management 3
BUS-362 Information Systems for Managers 3
IAE-201 Introduction to Information Assurance 3
Mathematics and Science 15 Credits
BUS-250 Database for Managers 3
MA-110 Business Management Math I 3
MA-111Business Management Math II 3
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
Science Elective 3
Humanities and Social Sciences 18 Credits
HU-331 or HU-332 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Humanities Electives 3
Humanities Electives 3
Social Science Electives 3
Social Science Electives 3
128 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 120 Credits
Course Credits

English Communications 9 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
BUS-200 Business Communications 3

Unmanned and Autonomous Systems (BS)
The Bachelor of Science in Unmanned and Autonomous Systems provides students
with the necessary knowledge to become a professional in the field. The program
provides a foundation in flight operations, mission planning, special sensors, weapons,
surveillance and data collection, aeronautical technologies and ground control. Students
design, construct, and fly an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV). Students can become
certified Unmanned Aerial Systems Operators, and gain the knowledge and skills to
support governmental and commercial employers. The program prepares students to
pass the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Part 107 test to become a Commercial
UAV Pilot and Sport Pilot. All students will complete a capstone in which they propose,
design, build, test and deliver a computer-based system.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Analyze the fundamentals of unmanned and autonomous systems, including
the technological, social, environmental, and political aspects of the system
to examine, compare, analyze and recommend conclusions.

•

Compare and contrast current unmanned and autonomous system issues,
identify contributing factors, and formulate strategies to address or further
investigate.

•

Evaluate and recommend the incorporation of new technologies, methods,
processes, or concepts with current unmanned system applications,
management practices, or operational policies.

•

Critically justify and validate unmanned and autonomous system design
configurations to support safe, efficient, and effective operations in

129 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Electives 15 Credits
Technical Elective 3
Technical Elective 3
Technical Elective 3
Technical Elective 3
Technical Elective 3

•

Effectively communicate concepts, designs, theories, and supporting material
with others in the unmanned and autonomous systems field.

•

Investigate current unmanned systems problems, complete a thorough review
of the issue, formulate hypotheses, collect and appropriately analyze data,
interpret the findings and provide a report to others in the field.

•

Improve the field of unmanned and autonomous systems and provide
solutions to unmanned and autonomous systems challenges

Course Requirements
Bachelor of Science 122 Credits
Course Credits
Unmanned and Autonomous Systems (UAS) -Technical Core 46 Credits
UAS-101 Introduction to UAS 3
UAS-102 Mechanics of UAS 3
EL-100 Introduction to DC/AC Circuits 3
UAS-110 Air Traffic Control Communications 3
UAS-120 UAS Operator Certification 4
UAS-130 UAS Safety Management Systems 3
UAS-140 UAS Operations 3
UAS-150 UAS Crew Planning 3
UAS-201 UAS Sensors 3
UAS-202 UAS Ground Vehicles 3
UAS-210 UAS Design 3
UAS-220 Introduction to Processing Remotely Sensed Data 3
UAS-230 Unmanned Surface and Underwater Vehicles 3
UAS-240 Unmanned Space Vehicles 3
UAS-250 Unmanned Vehicle Environments 3
Unmanned and Autonomous Systems - Management Core 18 Credits
UAS-310 Unmanned Vehicle Missions 3
UAS-320 Unmanned Vehicle Business Decisions 3
UAS-330 Unmanned Systems Crew Resource Management 3
UAS-410 Unmanned Vehicle Laws and Regulations 3
UAS-457 Senior Design Project I 3
UAS-458 Senior Design Project II 3

130 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

applicable domains (air, space, ground, and maritime), including assessing
appropriateness of major elemental components, evaluating limitations and
constraints, formulating theory of operation, and supporting the perceived
need.

Unmanned and Autonomous Systems - Data Core 21 Credits
CS-120 Introduction to Programming Using Python 3
CS-150 Introduction to Programming in C 3
CS-220 Database Management 3
CT-206 Scripting Languages 3
IAE-201 Introduction to Information Assurance Concepts 3
UAS-420 Data Acquisition and Post-Processing 3
UAS-430 UAS Data Visualization and Presentation 3

Undergraduate Studies

English, Humanities, and Social Sciences 18 Credits
EN-101 English Communications I 3
EN-102 English Communications II 3
HU-331 or HU-332 Arts and Ideas 3
SS-351 Ethics 3
Social Science Elective 3
Humanities Elective 3
Mathematics and Physical Sciences 19 Credits
MA-114 Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MA-124 Discrete Mathematics 3
MA-128 Introduction to Statistics 3
PH-201 General Physics I 3
PH-202 General Physics II 3
AE-390 Aviation Meteorology 3

Minors
Undergraduate minors enable students to add a concentration to their academic
credentials. Students seeking an undergraduate minor must have earned at least 15
credits in residence at Capitol Technology University, with a cumulative GPA of 2.0 or
higher before declaring a minor. Once students have earned more than 100 credits,
they are no longer eligible to declare a minor. A student may only have one declared
minor. No course substitutions are permitted. No more than nine transfer credits may
be applied to a minor, and no more than six credits may apply to both a major degree
program and a minor.

Computer Science (18 credits)
Computer science minors learn the basics of programming, using two languages: Java
and C, as well as database management, algorithms, data structures and analytical
skills used by industry professionals.
Required Courses
CS-130 Introduction to Programming Using Java 3
CS-150 Programming in C 3
CS-220 Database Management 3

131 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

CS-230 Data Structures 3
CS-310 Computer Algorithms 3
CS-316 Intelligent Systems 3
Due to the similar nature of required courses, students in Computer Engineering and
Computer Sciences majors will not be eligible to apply for this minor.

Cybersecurity (18 credits)

Required Courses
NT-150 Computer Networking 3
IAE-201 Introduction to Information Assurance Concepts 3
IAE-250 Comprehensive Computer and Network Security 3
IAE-260 Secure Systems Administration and Operation 3
IAE-325 Secure Data Communications and Cryptography 3
IAE-402 Introduction to Incident Handling and Malicious Code 3
Due to the similar nature of required courses, cybersecurity majors are not eligible to apply
for this minor.

Unmanned and Autonomous Systems (22 credits)
Unmanned systems minors gain a foundation in the field, including an understanding
of the essential rules and regulations upheld by industry professionals. Students
explore vehicle missions, learn how businesses make decisions, and obtain an operator
certification.
Required Courses
UAS-101 Introduction to Unmanned and Autonomous Systems 3
UAS-102 Mechanics of Unmanned and Autonomous Systems 3
UAS-120 Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Operator Certification 4
UAS-140 Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Operations 3
UAS-310 Unmanned Vehicle Missions 3
UAS-320 Unmanned Vehicle Business Decisions 3
UAS-410 Unmanned Vehicle Laws and Regulations 3
Due to the similar nature of required courses, unmanned and autonomous systems majors
are not eligible to apply for this minor.

Undergraduate Certificates
Undergraduate certificates are targeted at distinct information technology and

132 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Cybersecurity minors learn the basics of information security, as well as essential
systems administration skills used by industry professionals. Additional topics include
network security, secure communication and cryptography, and incident handling.

management fields. Students seeking an undergraduate certificate may only apply
one relevant transfer course to certificate requirements. No course substitutions are
permitted and students must complete all remaining coursework at Capitol Technology
University. Once the course requirements are completed, students must apply for the
certificate through the Office of Registration and Records. A $25 processing fee is due
with the certificate request. A student must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0 in
all certificate coursework to be awarded a certificate.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

This upper-level certificate provide students with strategies to make sound business
decisions. Major topics include the foundations of pricing, negotiations, contracting,
procurement, mergers and acquisitions.
Required Courses
BUS-301 Project Management 3
BUS-385 Federal Acquisitions Management 3
BUS-387 Mergers and Acquisitions 3
BUS-388 Software Acquisitions 3

Computer and Network Security (12 credits)
This upper-level certificate provides students with a fundamental knowledge of general
network security concepts, which can then be applied to an advanced training program
in specific security software and platforms. Students learn the basics of practical and
theoretical network and computer security. The first course introduces students to
Introductory computer programming to support the advanced courses. The remaining
courses provide students with an understanding of computer and network security
issues, including encryption, SSL, privacy issues, directory services protocols such as
LDAP, intrusion detection, viruses, firewalls and network management.
Required Courses
CS-120 Introduction to Programming using Python 3
IAE-201 Introduction to Information Assurance Concepts 3
IAE-250 Comprehensive Computer and Network Security 3
IAE-260 Secure Systems Administration and Operation 3

Project Management (12 credits)
This upper-level certificate is built on core processes defined in the Project
Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK). The certificate enables students to learn
the basic concepts and strategies of project management for government and private
industry.
Required Courses

133 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

Acquisitions Management (12 credits)

BUS-275 Human Resource Management 3
BUS-301 Project Management 3
BUS-302 Methods of IT Project Management 3
BUS-303 Project Management Competitive Advantage 3

Programming and Data Management (12 credits)

Undergraduate Studies

This lower-level certificate provides students with an understanding of how
programmers store and manage computer data. Students learn the object-oriented
paradigm and the fundamental aspects of the storage and management of computer
data. Topics covered include Python, Java, Oracle and advanced data structures.
Required Courses
CS-120 Intro to Programming Using Python 3
CS-130 Intro to Programming Using Java 3
CS-220 Database Management 3
CS-225 Intermediate Java Programming 3

Software Engineering (12 credits)
In this upper-level certificate, students learn about data structures and data mining,
as well as the methods and methodologies involved in analyzing, designing and
implementing reliable computer applications.
Required Courses
CS-230 Data Structures 3
CS-240 Introduction to Data Mining 3
CS-405 Introduction to Software Design with Unified Modeling Language 3
CS-452 Agile Methods for Software Engineering 3

Space Missions and Operations Specialist (12 credits)
This upper-level certificate provides students with a general overview of satellites,
including simple physics of satellite orbits and the history of NASA and scientific
mission operations.
Students learn satellite design with emphasis on power management, heating
and cooling considerations, telemetry and communications and control systems.
Coursework includes the study of orbital mechanics and the physics of the instruments
used to monitor and analyze the earth and atmosphere
Required Courses
AE-150 Introduction to Space 3
AE-250 Ground Systems Engineering 3

134 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

AE-311 Spacecraft Systems 3
AE-411 Space Systems Engineering 3

Web Programming (12 credits)

Required Courses
CT-102 Introduction to Internet Applications 3
CT-206 Scripting Languages 3
CT-376 JavaScript 3
CT-406 Web Programming Languages 3

Website Development (12 credits)
This certificate is designed for students interested in building websites. Students
learn a variety of tools and applications such as HTML, Java Script, ASP, PHP,
Microsoft FrontPage and Macromedia Director. Topics covered include website and
browser requirements, platform selection, web server functions, client and server-side
applications, cookies, and website security.
Required Courses
CT-152 Introduction to UNIX 3
CS-130 Introduction to Programming Using Java 3
CS-220 Database Management 3
CT-376 Javascript 3

135 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Undergraduate Studies

This lower-level certificate provides a foundation in programming, with a focus on
transactions conducted over the Internet. Students learn about the web and the basic
tools used for webpage construction, including HTML, DHTML, scripting, CSS and XML.
Topics covered include relational databases, programming techniques and tools needed
to create dynamic webpages.

Graduate Studies
Graduate Program Offerings

Aeronautical Science
Artificial Intelligence
Astronautical Engineering
Business Analytics and Data Science
Computer Science
Construction Science
Counterterrorism
Critical Infrastructure
Cyberpsychology
Cybersecurity Leadership
Emergency and Protective Services
Engineering Management
Facilities Management
Financial Cybersecurity
Healthcare Cybersecurity
Human Factors
Industrial Hygiene
Intelligence and Global Security
Manufacturing
Military Leadership
Occupational Health and Safety
Occupational Risk Management
Product Management
Quantum Computing
Real Estate Management
Space Cybersecurity
Space Operations
Sustainability
Systems Engineering
Technology
Technology Combination Program (MS/PhD)
Unmanned Systems Applications

The Technology and Unmanned Systems Applications doctoral programs are all
asynchronous and have no residency requirements. Students research a topic and
submit a thesis or meet a publication requirement. All other doctoral classes are taught
in real-time, accelerated 8-week classes except for three residency courses that are held
on campus over three weekends.

136 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Graduate Studies

Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Degree

Doctor of Education (Ed.D.)
•

Educational Data Analytics

Doctor of Science (DSc) Degree
•

Cybersecurity

The Technology and Unmanned Systems Applications doctoral programs are all
asynchronous and have no residency requirements. Students research a topic and
submit a thesis or meet a publication requirement. All other doctoral classes are taught
in real-time, accelerated 8-week classes except for three residency courses that are held
on campus over three weekends.

Master of Business Administration (MBA) Degree
•

Business Administration


Aviation
Aviation Cybersecurity
Computer Science
Construction Cybersecurity
Counterterrorism
Critical Infrastructure
Cyber Analytics
Cybersecurity
Engineering Technology
Healthcare Data Analytics
Intelligence and Global Security
Occupational Safety and Health
Product Management
Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Policy and Risk Management

Master of Research (M.Res.) Degrees
•
•
•
•

Astronautical Engineering
Aviation Maintenance
Cyberpsychology
Sustainability

Post-Baccalaureate Certificates
•
•

Information Technology
Healthcare Systems Security

137 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Graduate Studies

Master of Science (MS) Degrees

•
•
•

Security Management
Secure Cloud Computing
Secure Mobile Technology

Technical Master of Business Administration (TMBA) Degree
•
•
•

Technical Master of Business Administration in Business Analytics and Data
Science
Technical Master of Business Administration in Cybersecurity

Doctoral Admissions
Requirements
•
•
•
•

Master’s degree in information assurance, computer science, information
technology or related field from a regionally accredited college or university
Minimum of three to five years of directly related work experience
Two letters of recommendation
Currently hold one of the following industry certifications: CISSP, GSE, CGEIT
or CISM. Students who hold other senior level certificates will be reviewed on
a case-by-case basis.

All PhD Programs
•
•
•

Master’s degree in a relevant field from an accredited college or university
A resume showing a minimum of 3-5 years of directly related work
experience
Two letters of recommendation

Technology Combination Program (MS/PhD)
•
•
•
•

Bachelor’s degree in a relevant field from an accredited college or university
A resume showing related work experience
Two letters of recommendation
Without a master’s degree, work experience considered in lieu of
qualifications and reviewed under state rule for suitability.

Doctoral Application Deadlines
Start		
Application Deadline
Fall		
Aug. 15 (classes start early Sept.)
Spring		
Dec. 1 (classes start early Jan.)
Summer
April 2 (classes start Early May)

138 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Graduate Studies

Cybersecurity (DSc)

Once an applicant’s file is complete, it will be sent to the Admissions Committee for
review. Applicant qualifications will be reviewed individually, and an interview may be
required. Applications are reviewed on a rolling basis. Applicants will be notified of their
acceptance status via email.

Aeronautical Science (PhD)
The Doctor of Philosophy in Aeronautical Science is designed to meet the demands
for the highest skilled professionals to become the leaders who will be involved in
the advancement, expansion, and support of commercial, military, or private aviation.
Graduates will contribute significantly to the aviation field through the creation of
new knowledge and ideas. They will contribute to the body of knowledge at a critical
point, as the entire sector expands and incorporates increasing technology. Students
who complete the program can expect to fill executive and senior-level management
positions in commercial, military, logistics, manufacturing, and operations.

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Integrate and synthesize alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or
ideas fully within the field of aviation.

•

Present scholarly work on aviation via appropriate communication channels.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in aviation.

•

Analyze existing theories to draw data-supported conclusions in aviation.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly research in
aviation.

•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and ethical impact
of actions within aviation and demonstrate advanced knowledge and
competency to Integrate the results in the leadership decision-making
process.

•

Evaluate how aviation affects the regions through pollution, noise, logistics,
safety and environment levels for its community.

•

Address the need for sustainability of both aircraft and operations to have
limited impact of resources.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits

139 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Graduate Studies

Student Outcomes

AVT-800 Aeronautical Science Research Background 6
AVT-810 Aeronautical Science Research Methodologies 6
AVT-820 Aeronautical Science Future Demand 6
AVT-830 Strategies for Aeronautical Science 6
AVT-840 Aeronautical Science Research Proposal 6
AVT-900 Aeronautical Science Doctoral Writing I 6
AVT-910 Aeronautical Science Doctoral Writing II 6
AVT-920 Aeronautical Science Doctoral Writing III 6
AVT-930 Aeronautical Science Doctoral Writing IV 6
AVT-940 Aeronautical Science Doctoral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

The Doctor of Philosophy in Artificial Intelligence provides students with the opportunity
to conduct extensive and original research at the highest level in the field. This
unique Doctoral Program is designed to meet the demands of the highest skilled
professional to become a leader who is involved in the advancement, expansion, and
support of the Artificial Intelligence industry. The degree provides a path for Artificial
Intelligence personnel to create intelligent machines that think, learn, and work like
humans in all areas of our lives. Artificial Intelligence is an interdisciplinary field
that includes a wide range of disciplines including aerospace, defense, engineering,
robotics, and mechatronics. Graduates leave the program with skills necessary to work
interdisciplinary environment.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Integrate and synthesize alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or
ideas fully within the field of Artificial Intelligence.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in Artificial Intelligence.

•

Analyze existing theories to draw data-supported consultations in Artificial
Intelligence.

•

Analyze theories, tools, and frameworks used in Artificial Intelligence.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in Artificial
Intelligence.

•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and ethical impact
of actions within Artificial Intelligence and demonstrate advance skill in
integrating the results into the leadership decision-making process.

140 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Graduate Studies

Artificial Intelligence (PhD)

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits

Astronautical Engineering (PhD)
The PhD in Astronautical Engineering is for new graduates and non-traditional students
experienced in aerospace engineering and astronautical engineering personnel who
desire to advance their careers by gaining leadership skills and research experience in
the space, engineering, and astronautical field. Graduates with a PhD in Astronautical
Engineering can pursue opportunities for technical, executive, and senior-level positions
in commercial companies as well as local, state, and federal government.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

incorporate the theoretical basis and practical applications of Astronautical
Engineering into their professional work.

•

apply research and advance problem-solving skills to their career field.

•

be versed in the science to offer economic solutions.

•

demonstrate the highest mastery the needs of Astronautical Engineering
globally.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits

141 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Graduate Studies

AIT-800 Artificial Intelligence Research Background 6
AIT-810 Artificial Intelligence Research Methodologies 6
AIT-820 Artificial Intelligence Future Demands 6
AIT-830 Strategies for Artificial Intelligence 6
AIT-840 Artificial Intelligence Research Proposal 6
AIT-900 Artificial Intelligence Doctoral Writing I 6
AIT-910 Artificial Intelligence Doctoral Writing II 6
AIT-920 Artificial Intelligence Doctoral Writing III 6
AIT-930 Artificial Intelligence Doctoral Writing IV 6
AIT-940 Artificial Intelligence Doctoral Defense 6

Astronautical Engineering Doctoral Core 30 Credits
AE-800 Astronautical Engineering Research Background
6
AE-810 Astronautical Engineering Research Methodologies 6
AE-820 Astronautical Engineering Future Demands
6
AE-830 Strategies for Astronautical Engineering
6
AE-840 Astronautical Engineering Research Proposal		
6
Astronautical Engineering Doctoral Research and Writing 30 Credits
AE-900 Astronautical Engineering Doctoral Writing I		
6
AE-910 Astronautical Engineering Doctoral Writing II 6
AE-920 Astronautical Engineering Doctoral Writing III 6
AE-930 Astronautical Engineering Doctoral Writing IV 6
AE-940 Astronautical Engineering Doctoral Defense 6

The Doctor of Philosophy in Business Analytics and Data Science is designed to prepare
accomplished professionals for senior positions in either public or private sectors. The
program enables professionals from the field to understand and evaluate the scope
and impact of decision sciences and associated technology from both institutional
and industry perspectives. The program will provide doctoral level research experience
allowing innovative and practical contributions to the management and data science
body of knowledge.

Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Integrate alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or ideas fully
within Decision Science.

•

Present scholarly data presentations via appropriate communication
channels.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in data handling.

•

Analyze various information to draw data-supported conclusions.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly research in data
analytics.

•

Synthesize various sources of data to produce robust conclusions.

•

Apply data analysis to determine the validity of data

•

Compare data to determine the trends and spurious results

142 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Graduate Studies

Business Analytics and Data Science (PhD)

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 54 Credits
Course Credits

YEAR 2
First Semester
DSM-915 Applied Statistics and Visualization for Analytics 3
(Term One)
DSM-920 Big Data Warehousing and Analytic Systems 3
(Term Two)
Second Semester
RSC-826 Applied Research in Management and Decision Sciences 3
(Term One)
DSR-951 Dissertation Research I 3
(Term Two)
Third Semester
PHL-813 Professional Ethics and Leadership (Term One) 3
RSC-815 Problem-Solving and Decision-Making Using Quantitative Methods (Term Two)
3
DSR-930 Management and Security of Information (Residency) 3
YEAR 3
First Semester
DSR-952 Dissertation Research II (Term One) 3
DSR-953 Dissertation Research III (Term Two) 3
Second Semester
DSR-945 Dissertation Preparation I (Term One) 3
DSR-960 Dissertation Presentation and Oral Defense (Residency) 3
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

143 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Graduate Studies

YEAR 1
First Semester
DSM-802 Fundamentals of Doctoral Learning (Sixteen-week Course) 6
Second Semester
PHL-900 Management Theory in a Global Economy (Term One) 3
DSM-905 Organizational Change and Information Systems Implementation (Term Two)
3
Third Semester
DSM-910 Analytics and Decision Analysis (Term One) 3
RSC-811 Professional Research Theory and Practice (Term Two) 3
RSC-821 Contemporary Research in Management (Residency) 3

The Doctor of Philosophy in Computer Science provides students with the opportunity
to conduct extensive and sustained original research at the highest level in the field of
operational technology. Computer Science (CS) is a multifaceted discipline. CS is the
hardware and software that detects or causes a change, through the direct monitoring
and control of industrial equipment, assets, processes, and events. CS is also the
technology that interfaces with the physical world, including Industrial Control Systems
(ICS), Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) Distributed Control Systems
(DCS), and the Internet of Things (IoT). The PhD in Computer Science is a unique
doctoral program designed to meet the demands of the highest skilled professionals to
become the leaders who will be involved in the advancement, expansion, and support
of the Computer Science industry. Computer Science has existed since the discovered
ability to use and store business data with machines and electricity has powered
machinery and equipment in factories, buildings, transportation, systems, the utility
industry, and more. However, the accelerating convergence of CS with Information
Technology (IT) has made CS one of the most rapidly growing fields, permeating all
sectors of our lives, work, and national security. As a result, the field requires innovative
researchers and practitioners who desire to elevate their skills to the highest level and
contribute to the body of knowledge in Computer Science.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Integrate and synthesize alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or
ideas fully within the field of Computer Science.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in Computer Science.

•

Analyze theories, tools, and frameworks used in Computer Science.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in Computer
Science.

•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and ethical impact of
actions within Computer Science and demonstrate advance skill in integrating
the results in to the leadership decision-making process.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
CS-800 Operational Technology Research Background
CS-810 Operational Technology Research Methodologies
CS-820 Operational Technology Future Demands
CS-830 Operational Technology
144 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Graduate Studies

Computer Science (PhD)

CS-840 Operational Technology Research Proposal
CS-900 Operational Technology Doctoral Writing I
CS-910 Operational Technology Doctoral Writing II
CS-920 Operational Technology Doctoral Writing III
CS-930 Operational Technology Doctoral Writing IV
CS-940 Operational Technology Doctoral Defense

The Doctor of Philosophy in Construction Science is designed to meet the demands
of the highest skilled professionals to become the leaders who support, advance, and
expand construction science on both large and small scales. This program provides
a path for professionals in the construction field to explore new ground, as the
industry faces changes in competitive local, national, and global markets. Graduates
will contribute to the construction science field through the creation of new ideas in
response to the impact of increasing technology. Students who complete the program
can expect to fill executive and senior-level management positions in commercial
construction, military construction, civil construction, and construction technology.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Integrate and synthesize alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or
ideas fully within the field of Construction Science.

•

Critically analyze existing theories in Construction Science to draw datasupported conclusions to move the field forward and support the attainment
of desired outcomes.

•

Conceptualize, apply and integrate effective qualitative and quantitative
research strategies in Construction Science and to develop new information
effectively.

•

Take a leadership role in a field of Construction Science while employing the
highest levels of ethics, analytics, decision analysis, and data visualization.

•

Present scholarly work on Construction Science via appropriate
communication channels.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in Construction
Science.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly research in
Construction Science.

145 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Graduate Studies

Construction Science (PhD)

•

Evaluate how construction affects the regions though pollution, noise,
logistics, safety and environment simultaneously in the local and extended
community.

•

Address the need for sustainability and Green Building within Construction
Science.

CM-800 Construction Science Research Background 6
CM-810 Construction Science Research Methodologies 6
CM-820 Construction Science Future Demands 6
CM-830 Strategies for Construction Science 6
CM-840 Construction Science Research Proposal 6
CM-900 Construction Science Doctoral Writing I 6
CM-910 Construction Science Doctoral Writing II 6
CM-920 Construction Science Doctoral Writing III 6
CM-930 Construction Science Doctoral Writing IV 6
CM-940 Construction Science Doctoral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Counterterrorism (PhD)
The Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Counterterrorism degree is a unique program
designed to meet the long-standing needs of today’s business and government
environments for combatting terrorism. The Ph.D. in Counterterrorism program provides
students with the opportunity to conduct extensive and sustained, original research
at the highest level in the field of counterterrorism. The Ph.D. in Counterterrorism is
designed to meet the demands of the highest-skilled professionals to become leaders
who will be involved in the advancement, expansion and support of the counterterrorism
environment on a large and small scale. The Ph.D. in Counterterrorism is for current
professionals in the field who desire to elevate their skills to the highest level and to
contribute to the body of knowledge in counterterrorism.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Integrate and synthesize alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or
ideas fully within the field of counterterrorism.

146 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Graduate Studies

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in counterterrorism.

•

Analyze theories, tools, and frameworks used in counterterrorism.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in
counterterrorism.

•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and ethical impact of
actions within counterterrorism and demonstrate advanced skill in integrating
the results into the leadership decision-making process.

•

Develop skill to implement counterterrorism plans needed for advanced
global protection.

•

Critique human skills and practices for selecting teams that work in
counterterrorism.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
CRT-800 Counterterrorism Research Background (6 Credits)
CRT-810 Counterterrorism Research Methodologies (6 Credits)
CRT-820 Counterterrorism Future Demands (6 Credits)
CRT-830 Strategies for Counterterrorism (6 Credits)
CRT-840 Counterterrorism Research Proposal (6 Credits)
CRT-900 Counterterrorism Doctoral Writing I (6 Credits)
CRT-910 Counterterrorism Doctoral Writing II (6 Credits)
CRT-920 Counterterrorism Doctoral Writing III (6 Credits)
CRT-930 Counterterrorism Doctoral Writing IV (6 Credits)
CRT-940 Counterterrorism Doctoral Defense (6 Credits)

Critical Infrastructure (PhD)
The Doctor of Philosophy in Critical Infrastructure is designed to meet the demand for
the highest skilled professionals to become the leaders who direct and upgrade the
nation’s critical infrastructure. The program addresses one of the greatest technical
challenges of the 21st century: how to create a robust and sustainable infrastructure
that is resilient against multiple threats, as well as how to build operational, systems,
and programmatic capabilities for detection, protection, prevention, mitigation, and
response. Graduates can expect to fill executive and senior-level management positions
in government organizations, private corporations, and commercial start-up companies.

147 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Graduate Studies

•

Student Outcomes
•

Integrate and synthesize alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or
ideas fully within the field of Critical Infrastructure.

•

Present scholarly work on Critical Infrastructure via appropriate
communication channels.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in Critical
Infrastructure.

•

Analyze existing theories to draw data-supported conclusions in Critical
Infrastructure.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly research in Critical
Infrastructure.

•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and ethical impact of
actions within Critical Infrastructure and demonstrate advanced knowledge
and competency to Integrate the results in the leadership decision-making
process.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
CRI-800 Critical Infrastructure Nervous System 6
CRI-810 Critical Infrastructure Construction and Function 6
CRI-820 Threats to Critical Infrastructure 6
CRI-830 Strategies for Critical Infrastructure Protection and Resilience 6
CRI-850 Critical Infrastructure Path Forward 6
CRI-900 Critical Infrastructure Doctoral Writing I 6
CRI-910 Critical Infrastructure Doctoral Writing II 6
CRI-920 Critical Infrastructure Doctoral Writing III 6
CRI-930 Critical Infrastructure Doctoral Writing IV 6
CRI-940 Critical Infrastructure Doctoral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online. For descriptions of required courses,
see listing beginning on page 211.

Cyberpsychology (PhD)
The Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Cyberpsychology degree is a unique program
designed to meet the rapidly evolving needs of an ever-changing world of conflict within
148 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Graduate Studies

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

the cyber-sphere. The Ph.D. in Cyberpsychology program provides students with the
opportunity to conduct extensive and sustained, original research at the highest level
in the field of Cyberpsychology. The Ph.D. in Cyberpsychology is designed to meet the
demands of the highest-skilled professionals to become leaders who will be involved
in the advancement, expansion, and support of Cyberpsychology on a national and
international level. The Ph.D. in Cyberpsychology is for current professionals in the field
who desire to elevate their skills to the highest level and to contribute to the body of
knowledge in Cyberpsychology.

Student Outcomes
•

Evaluate the need for Cyberpsychology.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies needed for the future in
Cyberpsychology.

•

Analyze theories, tools, and frameworks used in Cyberpsychology.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in
Cyberpsychology.

•

Develop skills to implement Cyberpsychology plans and operations.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
CPY-800 Cyberpsychology Research Background 6
CPY-810 Cyberpsychology Research Methodologies 6
CPY-820 Cyberpsychology Future Demands 6
CPY-830 Strategies for Cyberpsychology 6
CPY-840 Cyberpsychology Research Proposal 6
CPY-900 Cyberpsychology Doctoral Writing I 6
CPY-910 Cyberpsychology Doctoral Writing II 6
CPY-920 Cyberpsychology Doctoral Writing III 6
CPY-930 Cyberpsychology Doctoral Writing IV 6
CPY-940 Cyberpsychology Doctoral Defense 6

Cybersecurity (DSc)
The Doctor of Science in Cybersecurity prepares students for the rigors of cybersecurity
in federal agencies and industry, and results in graduates who are prepared to lead the

149 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Graduate Studies

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

field’s top organizations. The program, which balances theory and hands-on application,
enables students to develop high-level critical thinking and leadership and technical
skills, as well as research experience. Graduates are prepared to lead local, national
and global organizations and provide expert guidance for the protection of information
assets.
Student Outcomes
•

Integrate and synthesize alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or
ideas fully within the field of cyber security.

•

Present scholarly work on cyber security via appropriate communication
channels.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in cyber security.

•

Analyze existing theories to draw data-supported conclusions in cyber
security.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly research in cyber
security.

•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, and ethical impact of actions within
cyber security.

•

Understand the role of cyber security in the protection of institutes and
government organizations.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Science 54 Credits
Course Credits
YEAR 1
First Semester
RSC-802 Fundamentals of Doctoral Learning 6
(Sixteen-week Course)
Second Semester
IAE-830 Information Assurance Research Literature (Term One) 3
RSC-810 Professional Research Theory and Practice I (Term Two) 3
RSC-820 Situation Awareness Analysis and Action Plan Processes (Residency) 3
Third Semester
RSC-825 Applied Research in Information Assurance (Term One) 3
RSC-813 Professional Ethics and Leadership (Term Two) 3
YEAR 2
150 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Graduate Studies

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

First Semester
RSC-860 Research Design (Term One) 3
IAE-881 Special Topics II in Information Assurance (Term Two) 3
Second Semester
RSC-812 Professional Research Theory and Practice II (Term One) 3
IAE-880 Special Topics in Information Assurance (Term Two) 3
DSR-925 Dissertation Preparation (Residency) 3
Third Semester
IAE-882 Special Topics III in Information Assurance (Term One) 3
IAE-883 Special Topics IV in Information Assurance (Term Two) 3
YEAR 3
First Semester
DSR-900 Writing the Doctoral Dissertation (Term One) 3
IAE-884 Special Topics V in Information Assurance (Term Two) 3
Second Semester
DSR-935 Dissertation Preparation (Term One) 3
DSR-950 Dissertation Preparation and Oral Defense (Residency) 3
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

The Doctor of Philosophy in Cybersecurity Leadership provides students with the
opportunity to conduct extensive and sustained original research at the highest level in
the field. This degree provides a path for Cybersecurity Leadership personnel to explore
new ground in the rapidly growing field. Graduates will contribute significantly to the
field of Cybersecurity Leadership through the creation of new knowledge and ideas. The
Ph.D. in Cybersecurity Leadership program is structured for experienced professionals
in the field Cybersecurity Leadership who hold the appropriate master’s degree and
professional experience. This is a unique Doctoral Program designed to meet the
demands of the highest skilled professional to become leaders who will be involved in
the advancement, expansion and support of the Cybersecurity industry.

Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Integrate and synthesize alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or
ideas fully within the field of Cybersecurity Leadership.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in Cybersecurity
Leadership.

151 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Cybersecurity Leadership (PhD)

•

Analyze theories, tools, and frameworks used in Cybersecurity Leadership.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in
Cybersecurity Leadership.

•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and ethical impact of
actions within Cybersecurity Leadership and demonstrate advanced skill in
integrating the results into the leadership decision-making process.

•

Develop skill to implement cybersecurity systems and plans needed for
advanced global protection

•

Critique human skills and practices for selecting teams that work in
cybersecurity

CSL-800 Cybersecurity Leadership Research Background 6
CSL-810 Cybersecurity Leadership Research Methodologies 6
CSL-820 Cybersecurity Leadership Future Demands 6
CSL-830 Strategies for Cybersecurity Leadership 6
CSL-840 Cybersecurity Leadership Research Proposal 6
CSL-900 Cybersecurity Leadership Writing I 6
CSL-910 Cybersecurity Leadership Doctoral Writing II 6
CSL-920 Cybersecurity Leadership Doctoral Writing III 6
CSL-930 Cybersecurity Leadership Doctoral Writing IV 6
CSL-940 Cybersecurity Leadership Doctoral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Educational Data Analytics (Ed.D.)
The field of Educational Data Analytics focuses on data analytics to improve student
success, educational development, and course design. The U.S. Department of
Education began an initiative to collect, analyze, and promote the use of high-quality
data to support policymaking, demographic research, and resource accessibility within
the educational system. Since then, using big data in this environment has shown
increasing progress as well as a need for professionals who can perform this analysis
research. Predictive modeling, adaptive learning, decision management, comprehensive
assessments, and learner engagement are all forms of innovation made possible
through educational data analytics. This degree provides a path for education and

152 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits

administrative professionals to be at the forefront of managing these areas.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

incorporate the theoretical basis and practical applications of the field into
their professional work.

•

demonstrate the highest mastery of the needs applied to the wider issues.

•

evaluate complex problems, synthesize divergent/alternative/contradictory
perspectives and ideas fully, and develop advanced solutions to educational
challenges.

•

contribute to the body of knowledge in the use of Data Analytics.

EDA-800 Educational Data Analytics Background 6
EDA-810 Educational Data Analytics Methodologies 6
EDA-820 Educational Data Analytics Future Demands 6
EDA-830 Strategies for Educational Data Analytics 6
EDA-840 Educational Data Analytics Research Proposal 6
EDA-900 Educational Data Analytics Doctoral Writing 6
EDA-910 Educational Data Analytics Doctoral Writing II 6
EDA-920 Educational Data Analytics Doctoral Writing III 6
EDA-930 Educational Data Analytics Doctoral Writing IV 6
EDA-940 Educational Data Analytics Doctoral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Emergency and Protective Services (PhD)
The Doctor of Philosophy in Emergency and Protective Services is designed to provide
students with the opportunity to conduct extensive and sustained original research in
the field. This degree is for current professionals in the field who desire to elevate their
skills, and critical decision making to the highest level, and contribute to the body of
knowledge in Emergency and Protective Services. This program provides a compass
for Emergency and Protective Services personnel to explore new opportunities and
obligations in the rapidly changing environment at the local, state, national, and global

153 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Education 60 Credits
Course Credits

levels.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Integrate and synthesize alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or
ideas fully within the field of emergency and protective services.

•

Present scholarly work on emergency and protective services via appropriate
communication channels.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in emergency and
protective services.

•

Analyze existing theories to draw data-supported conclusions in emergency
and protective services.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly research in
emergency and protective services.

•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and ethical impact of
actions within emergency and protective services and demonstrate advanced
knowledge and competency to Integrate the results in the leadership decisionmaking process.

Courses

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
EPS-800 Emergency and Protective Services 6
EPS-810 Impending Environments in Emergency and Protective Services 6
EPS-820 Advanced Research Methodologies for Emergency and Protective Services 6
EPS-830 Comprehensive Strategies for Emergency and Protective Services 6
EPS-840 Emergency and Protective Services Proposal
EPS-900 Emergency and Protective Services Writing I 6
EPS-910 Emergency and Protective Services Writing II 6
EPS-920 Emergency and Protective Services Writing III 6
EPS-930 Emergency and Protective Services Writing IV 6
EPS-940 Emergency and Protective Services Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Engineering Management (PhD)

The PhD in Engineering Management is for current professionals or those with
experience in the field of engineering design, manufacturing and service. Students will
pursue a deep proficiency in this area using an interdisciplinary methodology, cutting154 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

edge courses, and dynamic faculty. Graduates will contribute significantly to the
Engineering Management field through the creation of new knowledge and ideas.
As your PhD progresses, you will move through a series of progression points and
review stages by your academic supervisor. This ensures that you are engaged in a
process of research that will lead to the production of a high-quality Thesis and/or
publications and that you are on track to complete this in the time available. Following
submission of your PhD Thesis or accepted three academic journal articles, you will
have an oral presentation assessed by an external expert in your field.
Student Outcomes
•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and ethical impact
of actions within Engineering Management and demonstrate advanced
knowledge and competency to integrate the results in the leadership decisionmaking process.

•

Demonstrate the highest mastery of traditional and technological techniques
of communicating ideas effectively and persuasively.

•

Evaluate complex problems, synthesize divergent/alternative/contradictory
perspectives and ideas fully, and develop advanced solutions to Engineering
Management challenges.

•

Contribute to the body of knowledge in the study of Engineering Management.

Engineering Management Doctoral Core 30 Credits
EGM-800 Engineering Management Research Background 6
EGM-810 Engineering Management Research Methodologies 6
EGM-820 Engineering Management Future Demands 6
EGM-830 Strategies for Engineering Management 6
EGM-840 Engineering Management Research Proposal 6
Engineering Management Doctoral Research and Writing 30 Credits
EGM-900 Engineering Management Doctoral Writing I 6
EGM-910 Engineering Management Doctoral Writing II 6
EGM-920 Engineering Management Doctoral Writing III 6
EGM-930 Engineering Management Doctoral Writing IV 6
EGM-940 Engineering Management Doctoral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

155 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

Facilities Management (PhD)
The PhD in Facilities Management will meet the demands of the highest-skilled
professionals to become leaders who will be involved in the advancement, expansion,
and support of Facilities Management. This degree is research focused and allows
experts in the field to apply their skills to academic problems and advance the subject
on the national and international stage. Facilities Management is now more demanding
as technology and operational demands become integrated with work.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Evaluate the need for Facilities Management applications and solutions.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies needed for the future in
Facilities Management.

•

Analyze and synthesize theories, tools, and frameworks used in Facilities
Management.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in Facilities
Management.

•

Develop the skills to implement Facilities Management plans and strategies in
a global environment.
Courses

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
FM-800 Facilities Management Research Background 6
FM-810 Facilities Management Research Methodologies 6
FM-820 Facilities Management Future Demands 6
FM-830 Facilities Management 6
FM-840 Facilities Management Research Proposal 6
FM-900 Facilities Management Doctoral Writing I 6
FM-910 Facilities Management Doctoral Writing II 6
FM-920 Facilities Management Doctoral Writing III 6
FM-930 Facilities Management Doctoral Writing IV 6
FM-940 Facilities Management Doctoral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

156 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Financial Cybersecurity (PhD)
Financial Cybersecurity in an ever-changing world where operating efficiently, effectively
and to maintain Financial Services success both in America and its outreach. It is not an
extension of management studied but a discipline of Financial Cybersecurity. The PhD
in Financial Cybersecurity program provides students with the opportunity to conduct
extensive and sustained, original research at the highest level in the field of Financial
Services, Data Analysis & Cybersecurity. The PhD in Financial Cybersecurity is for
current leaders in the field who desire to elevate their skills to the highest level and to
contribute to the body of knowledge in Financial Services, Data Analysis & Cybersecurity
for the benefit of organizations and the Nation.
Student Outcomes
•

Evaluate the need for Financial Cybersecurity and the robust protection of
financial systems.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies needed for the future in
Financial Cybersecurity.

•

Analyze and synthesize theories, tools, and frameworks used in Financial
Cybersecurity.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in Financial
Cybersecurity.

•

Develop the skills to implement Financial Cybersecurity plans required for
advanced global protection of financial assets.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
FCS-800 Financial Cybersecurity Research Background 6
FCS-810 Financial Cybersecurity Research Methodologies 6
FCS-820 Financial Cybersecurity Future Demands 6
FCS-830 Financial Cybersecurity 6
FCS-840 Financial Cybersecurity Research Proposal 6
FCS-900 Financial Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing I 6
FCS-910 Financial Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing II 6
FCS-920 Financial Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing III 6
FCS-930 Financial Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing IV 6
FCS-940 Financial Cybersecurity Doctoral Defense 6

157 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Healthcare Cybersecurity (PhD)
The Doctor of Philosophy in Healthcare Cybersecurity degree is a unique program
designed to meet the long-standing needs of today’s United States Healthcare
Cybersecurity in an ever-changing world of risks to the Nation and individuals.
Ransomware and trends in patient care need to be modelled and managed. Capitol
Technology University is uniquely place academically to offer this degree with its
geographical location, location on Institutes and Agencies that are dedicated to
supporting and protecting this industry. The PhD in Healthcare and Cybersecurity
program provides students with the opportunity to conduct extensive and sustained,
original research at the highest level in the field of Healthcare Cybersecurity. The PhD
in Healthcare Cybersecurity is for current leaders in the field who desire to elevate their
skills to the highest level and to contribute to the body of knowledge in Healthcare
Cybersecurity for the benefit of organizations and the Nation.
Student Outcomes
•

Evaluate the need for Healthcare Cybersecurity and the robust protection of
healthcare systems.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies needed for the future
Healthcare Cybersecurity.

•

Analyze and synthesize theories, tools and frameworks used in Healthcare
Cybersecurity.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in Healthcare
Cybersecurity.

•

Develop the skills to implement Healthcare Cybersecurity plans required for
advanced global protection of healthcare assets.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
HCS-800 Healthcare Cybersecurity Research Background 6
HCS-810 Healthcare Cybersecurity Research Methodologies 6
HCS-820 Healthcare Cybersecurity Future Demands 6
HCS-830 Healthcare Cybersecurity 6

158 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

HCS-840 Healthcare Cybersecurity Research Proposal 6
HCS-900 Healthcare Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing I 6
HCS-910 Healthcare Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing II 6
HCS-920 Healthcare Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing III 6
HCS-930 Healthcare Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing IV 6
HCS-940 Healthcare Cybersecurity Doctoral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Human Factors (PhD)
The Doctor of Philosophy in Human Factors is designed to provide students with the
opportunity to conduct extensive and sustained original research at the highest level
in the field. This program trains students to become leaders who will be involved in
the advancement, expansion, and support of the human factors industry. This degree
is for current professionals who desire to elevate their skills to the highest level, and
contribute to the body of knowledge in Human Factors. This discipline involves human
centered designs for most of the products we use in society. Human Factors is one of
the most rapidly growing disciplines in the 21st century.
Student Outcomes
•

Integrate and synthesize alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or
ideas fully within the field of Human Factors.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in Human Factors.

•

Analyze existing theories to draw data-supported conclusions in Human
Factors.

•

Analyze theories, tools, and frameworks used in Human Factors

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in Human
Factors.

•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and ethical impact of
actions within Human Factors and demonstrate advanced skill in integrating
the results into the leadership decision-making process.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits

159 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

HFE-800 Human Factors Research Background 6
HFE-810 Human Factors Research Methodologies 6
HFE-820 Human Factors Future Demands 6
HFE-830 Strategies for Human Factors 6
HFE-840 Human Factors Research Proposal 6
HFE-900 Human Factors Doctoral Writing I 6
HFE-910 Human Factors Doctoral Writing II 6
HFE-920 Human Factors Doctoral Writing III 6
HFE-930 Human Factors Doctoral Writing IV 6
HFE-940 Human Factors Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Industrial Hygiene (PhD)

Courses

The Doctor of Philosophy in Industrial Hygiene is designed to provide current
professionals in the safety and occupational construction field with an opportunity to
conduct extensive and sustained, original research at the highest level. This program
offers a path for Industrial Hygiene personnel to explore new ground in the rapidly
evolving world of the commercial and governmental safety; industrial construction and
hygiene. Graduates will contribute significantly to the Industrial Hygiene field through
the creation of new knowledge, ideas and technology.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Integrate and synthesize alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or
ideas fully within the field of Industrial Hygiene.

•

Present scholarly work on Industrial Hygiene via appropriate communication
channels.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in Industrial Hygiene.

•

Analyze existing theories to draw data-supported conclusions in Industrial
Hygiene.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly research in
Industrial Hygiene.

•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and ethical impact of
actions within Industrial Hygiene and demonstrate advanced knowledge
and competency to Integrate the results in the leadership decision-making
process.

160 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
HYG-800 Industrial Hygiene Implications (6 credits)
HYG- 810 New Hazards to Industrial Hygiene (6 credits)
HYG-820 Advanced Research Methods for Industrial Hygiene (6 credits)
HYG-830 Comprehensive Strategies for Industrial Hygiene (6 credits)
HYG- 840 Industrial Hygiene Research Proposal (6 credits)
HYG-900 Industrial Hygiene Doctoral Writing I (6 Credits)
HYG-910 Industrial Hygiene Doctoral Writing II (6 Credits)
HYG-920 Industrial Hygiene Doctoral Writing III (6 Credits)
HYG-930 Industrial Hygiene Doctoral Writing IV (6 Credits)
HYG-940 Industrial Hygiene Doctoral Defense (6 Credits)
All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

The PhD in Intelligence and Global Security program will enable the graduating students
to apply theoretical, conceptual, and practical ‘real-world’ skills in intelligence and
security studies in their doctoral dissertations that are essential to enter and advance in
the public and private intelligence and national security sectors. This degree provides a
path for current professionals in the Intelligence and Global Security field to explore new
ground in the critical field of Intelligence and Global Security. The completion of the PhD
in Intelligence and Global Security program requires the student to produce, present, and
defend a doctoral dissertation after receiving the required approvals from the student’s
Committee and the PhD Review Board.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Integrate and synthesize theory and intel within the field of Intelligence and
Global Security

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in Intelligence and
Global Security

•

Analyze theories, tools and frameworks used in Intelligence and Global
Security.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in Intelligence
and Global Security

161 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Intelligence and Global Security (PhD)

•

Critique human skills and practices for selecting teams that work in
Intelligence and Global Security

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Intelligence and Global Security Doctoral Core 30 Credits
IGS-800 Intelligence and Global Security Research Background
IGS-810 Intelligence and Global Security Research Methodologies
IGS-820 Intelligence and Global Security Future Demands
6
IGS-830 Strategies for Intelligence and Global Security		
6
IGS-840 Intelligence and Global Security Research Proposal 6

6
6

Intelligence and Global Security Doctoral Research and Writing 30 Credits
IGS-900 Intelligence and Global Security Doctoral Writing I 6
IGS-910 Intelligence and Global Security Doctoral Writing II 6
IGS-920 Intelligence and Global Security Doctoral Writing III 6
IGS-930 Intelligence and Global Security Doctoral Writing IV 6
IGS-940 Intelligence and Global Security Doctoral Defense 6

Manufacturing (PhD)
The Doctor of Philosophy in Manufacturing is an interdisciplinary program designed to
meet the demands for the highest skilled professionals to become the leaders involved
in the advancement of the manufacturing industry. The design of manufacturing for
increased revenue, lower costs, time to market, and higher quality is more demanding
in today’s competitive global market and with the Introduction of mechatronics and
robotics engineering.
This program provides students with an opportunity to conduct extensive and sustained
original research at the highest level. Graduates will contribute significantly to the
manufacturing field through the creation of new knowledge and ideas as the sector
expands and uses technology to evolve.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Integrate and synthesize alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or
ideas fully within the field of manufacturing.

162 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

•

Present scholarly work on manufacturing via appropriate communication
channels.

•

Apply advanced knowledge and competencies in manufacturing.

•

Analyze existing theories to draw data-supported conclusions in
manufacturing.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly research in
manufacturing.

•

Evaluate the safety, operational, social, economic, environmental, and
ethical impact of actions within manufacturing and demonstrate advanced
knowledge and competency to Integrate the results in the leadership decisionmaking process.

•

Plan and determine how to minimize manufacturing’s effects on pollution,
noise, logistics, safety, environment, and local community.

•

Address the need for sustainability of operations to have limited impact on
resources.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
Courses

MAF-800 Manufacturing Research Background 6
MAF-810 Manufacturing Research Methodologies 6
MAF-820 Manufacturing Future Demands 6
MAF-830 Strategies for Manufacturing 6
MAF-840 Manufacturing Research Proposal 6
MAF-900 Manufacturing Doctoral Writing I 6
MAF-910 Manufacturing Doctoral Writing II 6
MAF-920 Manufacturing Doctoral Writing III 6
MAF-930 Manufacturing Doctoral Writing IV 6
MAF-940 Manufacturing Doctoral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Military Leadership (PhD)
The PhD in Military leadership is designed for those serving in either senior Officer or
Enlisted positions that want to take their leadership skills to a higher level for serving
and protecting the Nation. It is also suitable for those associated with the operations

163 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

of military personnel, defense contractors or DoD agencies. In a world where the
advancement of technology is increasing at a faster pace, this degree is research
based and will support your development of critical thinking, leading edge theory and
applications in this special role. This degree prepares you for effective leadership in the
arena of defense; to lead, to direct and to manage personnel, technology, and resources
on a global platform.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Evaluate the need for improvements in Military Leadership within their
country’s armed forces.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies needed for the future in
Military Leadership.

•

Analyze and synthesize theories, tools, and frameworks used in Military
Leadership.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in Military
Leadership.

MIL 800 - Military Leadership Research Background 6
MIL 810 - Military Leadership Research Methodologies 6
MIL 820 – Military Leadership Future Demands 6
MIL 830 - Military Leadership 6
MIL 840 - Military Leadership Research Proposal 6
MIL 900 - Military Leadership Doctoral Writing I 6
MIL 910 – Military Leadership Doctoral Writing II 6
MIL 920 - Military Leadership Doctoral Writing III 6
MIL 930 – Military Leadership Doctoral Writing IV 6
MIL 940 – Military Leadership Doctoral Defense 6

Occupational Health and Safety (PhD)
The Doctor of Philosophy in Occupational Health and Safety is designed to meet the
needs of the highest skilled professionals to become the leaders who support, advance,
and expand the occupational health and safety field. This program provides a path for
occupational health and safety professionals to explore new ground in the evolving field

164 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits

at the local, national, and global levels. Graduates will contribute to the occupational
health and safety field through the creation of new ideas in response to the impact of
increasing technology. Students who complete the program can expect to fill executive
and senior-level positions in commercial companies as well as local, state, and federal
government.
Student Outcomes
•

Integrate and synthesize alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or
ideas fully within the field of Occupational Health and Safety.

•

Present scholarly work on Occupational Health and Safety via appropriate
communication channels.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in Occupational Health
and Safety.

•

Analyze existing theories to draw data-supported conclusions in Occupational
Health and Safety.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly research in
Occupational Health and Safety.

•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and ethical impact of
actions within Occupational Health and Safety and demonstrate advanced
knowledge and competency to Integrate the results in the leadership decisionmaking process.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
SAF-800 Occupational Health and Safety Implications 6
SAF-810 New Hazards to Occupational Health and Safety 6
SAF-820 Advanced Research Methods for Occupational Health and Safety 6
SAF-830 Comprehensive Strategies for Occupational Health and Safety 6
SAF-840 Occupational Health and Safety Proposal 6
SAF-900 Occupational Health and Safety Doctoral Writing I 6
SAF-910 Occupational Health and Safety Doctoral Writing II 6
SAF-920 Occupational Health and Safety Doctoral Writing III 6
SAF-930 Occupational Health and Safety Doctoral Writing IV 6
SAF-940 Occupational Health and Safety Doctoral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.
165 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

Occupational Risk Management (PhD)
The PhD in Occupational Risk Management degree is for current professionals in the
safety and occupational construction field. The degree provides a path for Occupational
Risk Management personnel to explore new ground in the rapidly evolving world of
the commercial and governmental safety and industrial construction, also hygiene.
Students pursue a deep proficiency in this area using an interdisciplinary methodology,
cutting-edge research, and dynamic faculty. Graduates will contribute significantly to
the Occupational Risk Management field through the creation of new knowledge, ideas,
and technology. The Ph.D. in Occupational Risk Management program is designed as a
doctorate by research where students will quickly become able to engage in leadership,
research, and publishing.
Student Outcomes
•

Incorporate the theoretical basis and practical applications of Occupational
Risk Management into their professional work.

•

Demonstrate the highest mastery of the needs of Occupational Risk
Management.

•

Evaluate complex problems, synthesize divergent/alternative/contradictory
perspectives and ideas fully, and develop advanced solutions to Occupational
Risk Management challenges.

•

Contribute to the body of knowledge in the study of Occupational Risk
Management.

•

Be leaders in solving Occupational Risk Management problems.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
ORM 800 - Occupational Risk Management Research Background 6
ORM 810 - Occupational Risk Management Research Methodologies 6
ORM 820 - Occupational Risk Management Future Demands 6
ORM 830 - Occupational Risk Management 6
ORM 840 - Occupational Risk Management Research Proposal 6
ORM 900 - Occupational Risk Management Doctoral Writing I 6
ORM 910 - Occupational Risk Management Doctoral Writing II 6
ORM 920 - Occupational Risk Management Doctoral Writing III 6
ORM 930 - Occupational Risk Management Doctoral Writing IV 6
ORM 940 - Occupational Risk Management Doctoral Defense 6

166 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Product Management (PhD)
The Doctor of Philosophy in Product Management is designed to meet the demands
of the highest skilled professionals to become the leaders who advance, expand, and
support product management on both a large and small scale. This program enables
current professionals in the field to elevate their skills to the highest level and explore
new ground, as the product management industry faces revolutionary changes in
competitive local, national, and global markets. Graduates will be prepared for executive
and senior-level management positions in commercial, military, civil, and hightechnology companies, where they will serve as subject matter experts.
Student Outcomes
•

Integrate and synthesize alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or
ideas fully within the field of Product Management.

•

Critically analyze existing theories in Product Management to draw data­
supported conclusions to move the field forward and support the attainment
of desired outcomes.

•

Conceptualize, apply and integrate effective qualitative and quantitative
research strategies in Product Management and to develop new information
effectively.

•

Take a leadership role in a field of Product Management while employing the
highest levels of ethics, analytics, decision analysis, and data visualization.

•

Present scholarly work on Product Management via appropriate
communication channels.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in Product
Management.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly research in
Product Management.

•

Evaluate how Product Management affects target populations in local and
extended communities.

•

Address the need for sustainability and Green products.

Course Sequence of Study

167 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
PRM-800 Product Management Research Background Implications 6
PRM-810 Product Management Research Methodologies 6
PRM-820 Product Management Future Demands 6
PRM-830 Strategies for Product Management 6
PRM-840 Product Management Research Proposal 6
PRM-900 Product Management Doctoral Writing I 6
PRM-910 Product Management Doctoral Writing II 6
PRM-920 Product Management Doctoral Writing III 6
PRM-930 Product Management Doctoral Writing IV 6
PRM-940 Product Management Doctoral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Doctor of Philosophy in Quantum Computing is designed to provide students with the
opportunity to conduct extensive and sustained original research. Quantum Computing
harnesses and exploits the laws of quantum mechanics to process information. Using
the phenomena of superposition and entanglement, a quantum computer can process
a vast number of calculations simultaneously. Difficult task that there was once thought
impossible for classical computers can be achieved quickly and efficiently using
quantum computing. Graduates will contribute significantly to the Quantum Computing
discipline through the creation of new knowledge and ideas. The PhD in Quantum
Computing program is designed as a research doctorate where students quickly
become able to engage in scholarly research and publishing.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Integrate and synthesize alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or
ideas fully within the field of Quantum Computing.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in Quantum
Computing.

•

Analyze existing theories to draw data-supported conclusions in Quantum
Computing.

•

Analyze theories, tools, and frameworks used in Quantum Computing.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in Quantum

168 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Quantum Computing (PhD)

Computing.
•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and ethical impact
of actions within Quantum Computing and demonstrate advanced skill in
integrating the results in to the leadership decision-making process.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
CSQ-800 Quantum Computing Research Background 6
CSQ-810 Quantum Computing Research Methodologies 6
CSQ-820 Quantum Computing Future Demands 6
CSQ-830 Quantum Computing 6
CSQ-840 Quantum Computing Research Proposal 6
CSQ-900 Quantum Computing Doctoral Writing I 6
CSQ 910 Quantum Computing Doctoral Writing II 6
CSQ 920 Quantum Computing Doctoral Writing III 6
CSQ 930 Quantum Computing Doctoral Writing IV 6
CSQ 940 Quantum Computing Doctoral Defense 6

Real Estate Management (PhD)
The Doctor of Philosophy in Real Estate Management degree is a unique program
designed to meet the long-standing needs of today’s Real Estate Management in an
ever changing world of commercial, private and of course the concept of smart cities.
The PhD in Real Estate Management program provides students with the opportunity
to conduct extensive and sustained, original research at the highest level in the field of
Real Estate Management. The PhD in Real Estate Management is designed to meet the
demands of the next generation of new buildings and mod needs of existing ones. The
Ph.D. in Real Estate Management is for current leaders in the field who desire to elevate
their skills to the highest level and to contribute to the body of knowledge in Real Estate
Management.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Integrate and synthesize alternate, divergent, or contradictory perspectives or
ideas fully within the field of Real Estate Management.

169 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in Real Estate
Management.

•

Analyze theories, tools, and frameworks used in Real Estate Management.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in Real Estate
Management.

•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and ethical impact of Real
Estate Management actions and demonstrate advanced skills in integrating
the results into the leadership decision-making process.

•

Develop the skill to implement Real Estate Management plans needed for
commercial and residential real estate.

•

Critique social skills and practices for selecting teams that work in Real
Estate Management.

REM-800 Ph.D. in Real Estate Management Research Background 6
REM-810 Real Estate Management Research Methodologies 6
REM-820 Real Estate Management Future Demands 6
REM-830 Strategies for Real Estate Management 6
REM-840 Real Estate Management Research Proposal 6
REM-900 Real Estate Management Doctoral Writing I 6
REM-910 Real Estate Management Doctoral Writing II 6
REM-920 Real Estate Management Doctoral Writing III 6
REM-930 Real Estate Management Doctoral Writing IV 6
REM-940 Real Estate Management Doctoral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Space Cybersecurity (PhD)
The Doctor of Philosophy in Space Cybersecurity degree is a unique program designed
to meet the long-standing needs of today’s United States Space Cybersecurity in
an ever-changing world of conflict. Capitol Technology University is uniquely place
academically to offer this degree with its geographical location, location on Institutes
and Agencies that are dedicated to supporting and protecting this industry. The PhD
in Space Cybersecurity program provides students with the opportunity to conduct

170 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits

extensive and sustained, original research at the highest level in the field of Space
Cybersecurity. The PhD in Space Cybersecurity is designed to meet the demands of
the military to become leaders who will be involved in the advancement, expansion
and support of the Space Cybersecurity environment on an international and domestic
setting. The PhD in Space Cybersecurity is for current leaders in the field who desire
to elevate their skills to the highest level and to contribute to the body of knowledge in
Space Cybersecurity.

Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
Evaluate the need for robust protection of space cybersecurity within the field
of military and commercial Space Cybersecurity.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies needed for the future in
Space Cybersecurity.

•

Analyze theories, tools, and frameworks used in Space systems.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in Space
Cybersecurity.

•

Develop skill to implement Space Cybersecurity plans needed for advanced
global protection of national assets.
Courses

•

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
SCS-800 Space Cybersecurity Research Background 6
SCS-810 Space Cybersecurity Research Methodologies 6
SCS-820 Space Cybersecurity Future Demands 6
SCS-830 Space Cybersecurity 6
SCS-840 Space Cybersecurity Research Proposal 6
SCS-900 Space Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing I 6
SCS-910 Space Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing II 6
SCS-920 Space Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing III 6
SCS-930 Space Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing IV 6
SCS-940 Space Cybersecurity Doctoral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

171 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Space Operations (PhD)
Earn a doctorate degree in Space Operations and meet the increasing need for civilian
and military leaders involved in the advancement, expansion, and support of the
aerospace workforce on an international and national level.
Interest in space operations is at an all-time high as technological advancements have
made it possible to better explore the aerospace environment. Protecting and surveilling
the policies, communications, equipment, and operations of our space systems are key
to the development and effectiveness of our nation’s global defenses and the safety
of our extraterrestrial missions. Government and private sector growth in this field is
creating a need for more hired personnel, as many companies are reporting significant
workforce shortages of trained technical and management employees with a doctoral
degree and experience in leading space operations initiatives. With Capitol Tech’s
unique resources, partnerships, and proximity to the nation’s space technology hub
of Washington, D.C., just minutes from NASA and other leading space organizations,
prospective students will find themselves positioned for success with internship and job
opportunities available to them. The PhD in Space Operations is for those who desire to
advance in their careers by gaining leadership skills in the industries related directly and
indirectly to space operations.
Student Outcomes
•

Incorporate the theoretical basis and practical applications of Space
Operations into their professional work.

•

Demonstrate the highest mastery of the needs of Space Operations.

•

Evaluate complex problems, synthesize divergent/alternative/contradictory
perspectives and ideas fully, and develop advanced solutions to Space
Operations challenges.

•

Contribute to the body of knowledge in the study of Space Operations in
commercial applications and military if appropriate.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
SOP-800 Space Operations Research Background 6
SOP-810 Space Operations Research Methodologies 6
SOP-820 Space Operations Future Demands 6
SOP-830 Strategies for Space Operations 6

172 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

SOP-840 Space Operations Research Proposal 6
SOP-900 Space Operations Doctoral Writing I 6
SOP-910 Space Operations Doctoral Writing II 6
SOP-920 Space Operations Doctoral Writing III 6
SOP-930 Space Operations Doctoral Writing IV 6
SOP-940 Space Operations Doctoral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

The Doctor of Business Administration in Supply Chain Management degree is a
unique program designed to meet the long-standing needs of today’s United States
Supply Chain systems in industry, service and logistics.in an ever changing world where
operating efficiently, effectively and to maintain secure and protected supply lines. It
is not an extension of management studied but a discipline of application research
based on needs and current technology. Capitol Technology University is uniquely
place academically to offer this degree with its geographical location. The Doctor of
Business Administration in Supply Chain Management program provides students with
the opportunity to conduct extensive and sustained, original research at the highest
level. The Doctor of Business Administration in Supply Chain Management is for current
leaders in the field who desire to elevate their skills to the highest level and to contribute
to the body for the benefit of organizations and the Nation.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Incorporate the theoretical basis and practical applications of Supply Chain
Management into their professional work.

•

Demonstrate the highest mastery of the needs of Supply Chain Management.

•

Evaluate complex problems, synthesize diverse Supply Chain Management
solutions.

•

Contribute to the body of knowledge in the study of Supply Chain
Management.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
SCM-800 Supply Chain Management Background 6
SCM-810 Supply Chain Management Research Methodologies 6
SCM-820 Supply Chain Management Future Demands 6

173 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Supply Chain Management (PhD)

SCM-830 Strategies for Supply Chain Management 6
SCM-840 Supply Chain Management Research Proposal 6
SCM-900 Supply Chain Management Doctoral Writing 6
SCM-910 Supply Chain Management Doctoral Writing II 6
SCM-920 Supply Chain Management Doctoral Writing III 6
SCM-930 Supply Chain Management Doctoral Writing IV 6
SCM-940 Supply Chain Management Doctoral Defense 6

Sustainability (PhD)
The PhD in Sustainability degree is a unique program designed to meet the longstanding needs of managing our resources efficiently, effectively and with sustainability.
This degree is not an environmental science degree or environmental in focus. The
focus is technology in using science and technology is reducing resource demand,
the reliability of what we use and the engineering to deliver on real improvements.
Currently wind turbine blades only are usable for 10 years, then buried until a solution
of how to recycle material is not able to be used with current knowledge. Sustainable
means designing turbine blades to last considerably longer, using materials that can be
recycled and supporting a net zero carbon environment.
Student Outcomes
•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece scholarly work in sustainability

•

Utilize their knowledge and skills in Sustainability to create and
implementation solutions to a wide range of global situations

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies needed for the future in
sustainable problems

•

Evaluate the need for the applications of Sustainability

•

Recognize areas that needs sustainable adaptations

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Sustainability Doctoral Core 30 Credits
SUS-800 Sustainability Research Background6
SUS-810 Sustainability Research Methodologies6
SUS-820 Sustainability for Future Demands6
SUS-830 Strategies for Sustainability6
SUS-840 Sustainability Research Proposal6

174 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

Sustainability Doctoral Research and Writing 30 Credits
SUS-900 Sustainability Doctoral Writing I 6
SUS-910 Sustainability Doctoral Writing II 6
SUS-920 Sustainability Doctoral Writing III 6
SUS-930 Sustainability Doctoral Writing IV 6
SUS-940 Sustainability Doctoral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Systems engineering is a growing field that provides many career opportunities to
graduates within this discipline. Systems Engineers work within the technology industry,
from biotech to mechatronics, computer science to aerospace – any system that
needs development, deployment, design, integration, and analysis will be managed by a
Systems Engineer. Systems Engineers tackle projects such as life cycle management,
data management, cybersecurity implementation, DevOps, control centers, algorithm
design, complex hardware and software testing, manufacturing systems, best practices
analyses, and others across a wide array of technological global industries. Graduates
within this profession are highly sought after, as they are a fundamental asset to
any successful business. The PhD in Systems Engineering is for those who desire to
advance in their careers by gaining leadership and management skills in the industries
related directly and indirectly to Systems Engineering.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Evaluate the need for systems engineering.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies needed for the future in
management of systems engineering.

•

Analyze theories, tools, and frameworks used in systems engineering.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in systems
engineering.

•

Develop skills to implement systems engineering.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits

175 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Systems Engineering(PhD)

SEG-800 Systems Engineering Research Background 6
SEG-810 Systems Engineering Research Methodologies 6
SEG-820 Systems Engineering Future Demands 6
SEG-830 Strategies for Systems Engineering 6
SEG-840 Systems Engineering Research Proposal 6
SEG-900 Systems Engineering Doctoral Writing I 6
SEG-910 Systems Engineering Doctoral Writing II 6
SEG-920 Systems Engineering Doctoral Writing III 6
SEG-930 Systems Engineering Doctoral Writing IV 6
SEG-940 Systems Engineering Doctoral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Technology (PhD)

Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Critically analyze problems in technology at the highest level and to identify
relevant and useful information to move the field forward and support the
attainment of desired outcomes.

•

Think critically by drawing appropriate conclusions from examining the output
of methodological applications in the technological environment.

•

Conceptualize, apply and integrate effective qualitative and quantitative
research strategies and to develop new information effectively.

•

Take a leadership role in a field of technology while employing the highest
levels of ethics, analytics, decision analysis, data visualization.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
Course Credits
TEC-800 Writing the Doctoral Proposal I 6
176 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

The Doctor of Philosophy in Technology is designed for working professionals who
conduct research in their career fields. The program is tailored to enable students to
select a focused research topic applicable to their industry. Coursework covers writing,
citation, and research ethics in technology, and students have the option to either
undertake a thesis or publication route for the completion of degree requirements.

TEC-810 Writing the Doctoral Proposal II 6
TEC-820 Writing the Doctoral Proposal III 6
TEC-830 Writing the Doctoral Proposal IV 6
TEC-840 Doctoral Proposal Oral Defense 6
TEC-900 Doctoral Research Preparation I 6
TEC-910 Doctoral Research Preparation II 6
TEC-920 Doctoral Research Preparation III 6
TEC-930 Doctoral Research Preparation IV 6
TEC-950 Doctoral Presentation and Oral Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Technology Combination Program (MS/PhD)

Courses

The Master of Science/Doctor of Philosophy Technology Combination Program is an
extension of the Doctor of Philosophy in Technology. Students who do not have the
required graduate level knowledge complete a sequence of master’s courses that lead
directly into the PhD in Technology program. The Doctor of Philosophy in Technology
is designed for working professionals who conduct research in their career fields. The
program is tailored to enable students to select a focused research topic applicable to
their industry. Coursework covers writing, citation, and research ethics in technology,
and students have the option to either undertake a thesis or publication route for the
completion of degree requirements.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Critically analyze problems in technology at the highest level and to identify
relevant and useful information to move the field forward and support the
attainment of desired outcomes.

•

Think critically by drawing appropriate conclusions from examining the output
of methodological applications in the technological environment.

•

Conceptualize, apply and integrate effective qualitative and quantitative
research strategies and to develop new information effectively.

•

Take a leadership role in a field of technology while employing the highest
levels of ethics, analytics, decision analysis, data visualization.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy in Technology with 90 Credits
Master of Science in Research Methods 30 Credits

177 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

TEC-700 Project I: Fundamentals of Graduate Research and Design 6
TEC-710 Project II: Ethics and Philosophy of Research and Data Collection 6
TEC-720 Project III: Qualitative and Quantitative Research Design 6
TEC-730 Project IV: Applied Statistics, Analytics, Decision Analysis, and Visualization 6
TEC-740 Project V: Capstone Project 6
Master of Science in Research Methods 60 Credits
TEC-800 Writing the Doctoral Proposal I 6
TEC-810 Writing the Doctoral Proposal II 6
TEC-820 Writing the Doctoral Proposal III 6
TEC-830 Writing the Doctoral Proposal IV 6
TEC-840 Doctoral Proposal Oral Defense 6
TEC-900 Doctoral Research Preparation I 6
TEC-910 Doctoral Research Preparation II 6
TEC-920 Doctoral Research Preparation III 6
TEC-930 Doctoral Research Preparation IV 6
TEC-950 Doctoral Presentation and Oral Defense 6

Unmanned Systems Applications (PhD)
Unmanned Systems is a fast-growing sector of the aviation industry. Students have the
option to undertake either a thesis or publication route for the completion of degree
requirements. The program is tailored to enable students to select a focused research
topic applicable to their industry. Topics covered include autonomous technologies,
machine learning, engineering, and cybersecurity.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Critically analyze problems in Unmanned Systems at the highest level and to
identify relevant and useful information to move the field forward and support
the attainment of desired outcomes.

•

Think critically by drawing appropriate conclusions from examining the output
of methodological applications in the technological environment within
unmanned and autonomous systems.

178 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

All required courses are offered exclusively online in a 16-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

•

Conceptualize, apply and integrate effective qualitative and quantitative
research strategies and to develop new information effectively.

•

Take a leadership role in a field of unmanned systems while employing the
highest levels of ethics, analytics, decision analysis, data visualization.

Course Sequence of Study
Doctor of Philosophy 60 Credits
TEC-800 Writing the Doctoral Proposal I 6
TEC-810 Writing the Doctoral Proposal II 6
TEC-820 Writing the Doctoral Proposal III 6
TEC-830 Writing the Doctoral Proposal IV 6
TEC-840 Doctoral Proposal Oral Defense 6
TEC-900 Doctoral Research Preparation I 6
TEC-910 Doctoral Research Preparation II 6
TEC-920 Doctoral Research Preparation III 6
TEC-930 Doctoral Research Preparation IV 6
TEC-950 Doctoral Presentation and Oral Defense 6

Master’s Degree Admissions
Applications for admission are accepted at any time and are processed and reviewed
upon receipt of all necessary documents, on a case-by-case basis. Master’s courses
are available during each term with two intake dates per semester. Students whose
application packages are incomplete will be classified as decision-pending.

Full Acceptance Status
For full acceptance, students must have a completed undergraduate degree from an
accredited institution or an international equivalent, with a cumulative GPA of no less
than 3.0 on a 4.0 scale. In addition, students must also meet the program-specific
prerequisites for their intended program.

Provisional Acceptance Status
Students who have not met the 3.0 undergraduate cumulative GPA requirements or
do not meet all of the program specific prerequisites are provided the opportunity to
gain full acceptance. Depending on the degree program, additional information may
179 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

All required courses are offered exclusively online. For descriptions of required courses,
see listing beginning on page 211.

be requested. In this case, students are provisionally admitted and limited to three
courses of enrollment. To achieve full acceptance, provisional students must maintain
a 3.0 cumulative GPA in their first three graduate courses. Upon doing so, students
are automatically converted to full acceptance status. If a provisional student fails to
achieve a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA after completing three courses, then he or
she will be academically dismissed, and will not be permitted to enroll in any further
courses.

Decision-Pending Status
Students with incomplete application packages (missing transcripts, missing essay,
etc.) are classified as decision-pending until the application package is complete.
Decision-pending students who have been approved to register are limited to two
courses of enrollment and are not permitted to enroll in a third class until their
applications are complete.

Program-Specific Prerequisites
Generally, to apply to a graduate degree program, you should have completed a
bachelor’s degree or be completing a bachelor’s degree prior to enrollment and should
have a 3.0 cumulative grade point average or higher. Some Master of Science programs
have additional technical competency requirements.
•
•

Applicants who possess an undergraduate degree in business are waived
from completing MBA-600 Fundamentals of Professional Management.
All other MBA students must complete it. MBA-600 provides a broad
foundation in accounting, finance, economics and statistics.

Computer Science
•
•

A Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science or related area is
recommended, but not required.
Students who do not have a BS in Computer Science or related area must
have the following programming knowledge: Proficiency in computer topics,
including programming (one or more of Python, Java or C++ recommended),
object oriented programming (classes, objects, inheritance and
polymorphism), data structures (queues, stacks, lists, linked lists and trees).

Cybersecurity
•

•

Courses are written to accommodate students with backgrounds in computer
information systems, computer networking, telecommunications, information
technology, network security, or computer science. Students are expected to
have a working knowledge of servers, routers, hubs, switches, TCP-IP, etc.
CCNA, Security+, SSCP, or CISSP certifications provide an excellent foundation

180 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Business Administration (MBA)

for preparation, but are not required.
Engineering Technology
•
•

Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology or Engineering is preferred
Mathematics: Calculus, Linear Algebra, and Ordinary Differential Equations
preferred.

Astronautical Engineering (M.Res)
The M.Res. in Astronautical Engineering program is structured for experienced
professionals in the Astronautical Engineering field with an appropriate degree and
professional experience. During the program, students will conduct original research in
an approved area of Astronautical engineering regardless of it being Commercial, Civil
or General Aviation. Successful completion of the program culminates in the award of
the Master of Research (M.Res.) in Astronautical Engineering degree.

Student Outcomes
•

Evaluate the need for the applications of Astronautical Engineering research.

•

Recognize areas in which research is needed to maintain space safety.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies needed in quantitative
and qualitative methodologies.

•

Investigate Astronautical issues from a global perspective.

•

Plan a research topic in Astronautical Engineering.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in
Astronautical Engineering and defend this before their academic peers.

Course Requirements
Master of Science 30 Credits
Course Credits
AE-700 Fundamentals of Graduate Research & Design 6
AE-710 Ethics & Philosophy of Research & Data Collection 6
AE-715 Astronautical Engineering Proposal 6
AE-725 Astronautical Engineering Research & Data Collection 6
AE-735 Astronautical Engineering Thesis and Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
181 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Aviation (MS)

The Master of Science in Aviation is designed to meet the growing needs of today’s
business and government environments where aviation is now a major business
consideration. Students learn how to integrate business and decision-making skills in
the technologically complex aviation and business environment. The program builds a
foundation that encompasses technology, management, marketing, accounting, finance,
information technology, and human resource management. The program will prepare
students for advanced management and leadership positions in the aviation industry
and related businesses.
Student Outcomes
•

Critically analyze problems within the aviation industry, synthesize the
relevant information and formulate solutions to attain desired outcomes.

•

Identify, formulate, and solve complex aviation and management problems by
selecting and applying appropriate tools and techniques.

•

Identify and synthesize problems in aviation processes, communications,
methods, materials, systems, equipment, planning, scheduling, safety,
economics, accounting, cost analysis and control, decision analysis, and
optimization in order to develop optimum solutions.

•

Conceptualize, apply and integrate effective strategies to use information
effectively in the decision-making process.

•

Evaluate executive decisions in the context of the modern aviation industry
and business environment to determine the potential impact on resources
and profitability.

•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and global ramifications
of leadership actions and business decisions within the aviation industry.

Course Requirements
Master of Science 36 Credits
Course Credits
Core Courses 36 Credits
AVT-616 Aviation Financial and Contract Management 3
AVT-625 Organizational Behavior in the Aviation Environment 3
AVT-627 Impact of Emerging Technology on Aviation 3
AVT-631 Aviation Personnel Management 3
182 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

AVT-635 Technology-Enabled Aviation Operations 3
AVT-646 Aviation Project Management 3
AVT-650 Strategic Aviation Management 3
AVT-671 Airport Management 3
AVT-674 Airline Management 3
AVT-686 Aviation Cybersecurity Management 3
AVT-700 Aviation Research Project I 3
AVT-701 Aviation Research Project II 3
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

The Master of Science in Aviation Cybersecurity is designed to meet the growing needs
of today’s business and government environments. The program provides aviation
and security professionals with an in-depth study of technological developments,
applications, and considerations in the aviation industry as they relate to real-life
industry challenges. The National Security Agency and Department of Homeland
Security have designated Capitol Technology University a National Center of Academic
Excellence in Cybersecurity. The program is mapped to all current federal domains at
the most advanced level specified in the standards, and also covers the 8 domains of
the CISSP (Certified Information Systems Security Professional), considered the goldstandard of industry certification. The required core courses build a foundation that
encompasses technology, management, marketing, accounting, finance, information
technology, and human resource management.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Critically analyze problems within aviation cybersecurity, synthesize the
relevant information and formulate solutions to attain desired outcomes.

•

Identify, formulate, and solve complex aviation cybersecurity problems by
selecting and applying appropriate tools and techniques.

•

Identify and synthesize problems in aviation processes, communications,
methods, materials, systems, equipment, planning, scheduling, safety,
economics, accounting, cost analysis and control, decision analysis, and
optimization in order to develop optimum solutions.

•

Conceptualize, apply and integrate effective strategies to use information
effectively in the decision-making process.

183 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Aviation Cybersecurity (MS)

•

Evaluate executive decisions in the context of the modern aviation industry
and business environment to determine the potential impact on resources
and profitability.

•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and global ramifications
of leadership actions and business decisions within the aviation industry.

Course Requirements
Master of Science 33-36 Credits
Course Credits

Cybersecurity 21 Credits
IAE-500 Introduction to Information Assurance* 3
IAE-675 Computer Forensics and Incident Handling 3
IAE-677 Malicious Software 3
IAE-679 Vulnerability Mitigation 3
IAE-680 Perimeter Protection 3
IAE-682 Internal Protection 3
IAE-685 Principles of Cybersecurity 3
Computer Science 3 Credits
CS-620 Operating System Principles for Information Assurance** 3
*IAE-500 can be waived with appropriate documentation.
**Course substitution can be granted for CS-620 for students who demonstrate
knowledge of UNIX and C programming.
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Aviation Maintenance (M.Res.)
The Master of Research (M.Res.) in Aviation Maintenance degree is a unique program
designed to meet the long-standing needs of disseminating research skills to those
working with and dealing with the aviation related to all aspects of maintenance. The
proposed M.Res. in Aviation Maintenance is for current professionals in the field of

184 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Aviation 12 Credits
AVT-627 Impact of Emerging Technology on Aviation 3
AVT-635 Technology-Enabled Aviation Operations 3
AVT-686 Aviation Cybersecurity Management 3
AVT-703 Aviation Cybersecurity Research Project 3

Aviation and those with associate knowledge that is needed to be incorporated into
research. The University is in a unique position to give those students an avenue to
pursue a deep proficiency in this area using an interdisciplinary methodology, cuttingedge courses, and dynamic faculty. Graduates will contribute significantly to the
Aviation Maintenance field through the creation of new knowledge and ideas. The
M.Res. in Aviation Maintenance program is designed as a degree by research where
students will quickly become able to engage in leadership, research, and publishing. It
is aimed at those that may want to explore research studies before starting a Doctorate
by research. Likewise, those that work in research and want a master’s qualification but
in a subject specific to their work. Aviation is becoming more technical and managing
this requires higher skills in a larger percentage of the workforce. The university has a
significant experience in aviation and aerospace subjects. Four faculty are Fellows of
the Royal Aeronautical society and many faculty/adjuncts are members.
Student Outcomes
•

Evaluate the need for Aviation Maintenance research and the application of
the research to improving the field.

•

Recognize areas that research is needed in Aviation Maintenance to maintain
the safety of the aircraft and its passengers.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies needed in quantitative
and qualitative methodologies at the master’s level.

•

Create a detailed plan to research a relevant topic in Aviation Maintenance.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in Aviation
Maintenance and defend it before their academic peers.

Course Requirements
Master of Business Administration 30 Credits
Course Credits
AMM-700 Fundamentals of Graduate Research & Design* 6
AMM-710 Ethics & Philosophy of Research & Data 6
AMM-715 Aviation Maintenance Research Proposal 6
AMM-725 Aviation Maintenance Research & Data Collection 6
AMM-735 Aviation Maintenance Thesis and Defense 6
*AMM-700 must be taken as the only class in the first semester. NO more than one
classes allowed in following semesters.

185 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

Business Administration (MBA)
The Master of Business Administration is designed to support professionals
seeking credentials necessary to qualify for high level management and leadership
positions, both in government and industry. MBA-core coursework and projects focus
on strengthening leadership skills, enhancing understanding of new technologies,
expanding ability to use technology to solve business problems, and understanding the
process of innovation. Specialization options include Aviation, Aviation Cybersecurity,
Construction Safety, Critical Infrastructure, Cybersecurity, Data Analytics, Engineering
Technology, Federal Acquisitions and DoD Contracting, and Unmanned and
Autonomous
Systems.
Student Outcomes
•

Identify organization problems and use information systems, technology,
financial and accounting techniques, marketing research, and other decisionmaking tools to strategically analyze, assess, and devise solutions to
business problems in a global environment

•

Employ quantitative techniques and methods and interpret the results in the
analysis of real-world business situations

•

Communicate effectively in multiple forms

•

Collaborate effectively with a team of colleagues on diverse projects.
Graduates will be able to deduce the ethical obligations and responsibilities of
a business

•

Differentiate and synthesize discipline-based knowledge as well as
hypothesize the interrelationships of the specific areas of study

•

Demonstrate the ability to become a change agent in a complex global
economy

Course Requirements
Master of Business Administration 36-39 Credits
Course Credits
Core Requirements 27-30 Credits
MBA-600 Fundamentals of Professional Management* 3
MBA-615 Financial Management 3
MBA-616 Financial and Contract Management 3
MBA-625 Organizational Behavior in Technical Environment 3
MBA-630 Marketing Process and Strategy 3
186 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

MBA-631 Technical Personnel Management 3
MBA-635 Technology-Enabled Operations 3
Graduate Studies
MBA-640 Managerial Economics 3
MBA-646 Federal Contract Project Management 3
MBA-650 Strategic Management 3
Electives*9 Credits
MBA Electives (3)
*MBA may be any 3 graduate level courses from the Capitol inventory. Or students can
focus in a specialization area from the following list.
Aviation
AVT-627 Impact of Emerging Technology on Aviation 3
AVT-635 Technology-Enabled Aviation Operations 3
AVT-650 Strategic Aviation Management 3

Construction Safety
SAF-600 Construction Safety Math and Metrics 3
SAF-610 Advanced Industrial Hygiene 3
SAF-620 Advanced Hazardous Materials 3
Critical Infrastructure
CRI-501 Critical Infrastructure Introduction 3
CRI-510 Critical Infrastructure I: Performance and Risk Analysis of Infrastructure 3
CRI-520 Critical Infrastructure II: Security Management of Critical Infrastructure 3
Cybersecurity
IAE-685 Principles of Cybersecurity 3
IAE-640 Access and Identity Management 3
IAE-673 Secure Information Transfer and Storage 3
Data Analytics
MBA-510 Analytics and Decision Analysis 3
MBA-515 Applied Statistics and Visualization for Analytics 3
MBA-520 Big Data Warehousing and Analytic Systems 3
Engineering Technology
EE-600 Mathematical Analysis 3
187 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Aviation Cybersecurity
AVT-627 Impact of Emerging Technology on Aviation 3
IAE-685 Principles of Cybersecurity 3
AVT-686 Aviation Cybersecurity Management 3

EE-710 Designing for Reliability and Manufacturability 3
EE-720 Designing for Testability 3
Graduate Studies
Federal Acquisitions & Contracting
MBA-701 Federal Acquisitions & Contracting 3
MBA-702 Mergers and Acquisitions 3
MBA-703 Software Acquisitions 3
Unmanned and Autonomous Systems
UAS-501 Unmanned Vehicle Theory and Practice 3
UAS-650 UAS Laws, Regulations and Policy 3
UAS-670 UAS Management for Managers 3
*MBA-600 is waived for students who have completed an undergraduate degree in
business within the past five years.
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous
format. For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

The Master of Science in Computer Science is structured to focus on new technologies,
graphics aimed at virtual realities, and the Internet. The program provides students
with the advanced knowledge and skills necessary to design and use computerbased systems, with an emphasis on emerging technologies, including embedded
languages, wireless technologies, miniaturization (PDAs), and data security. Students
study computer language design, intelligent systems design, and multi-threaded and
distributed programming and may specialize in an area of their choice, including
information architecture, network security or advanced computer science. All students
complete a capstone in which they identify a research topic and develop a major projectbased research paper.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Critically and creatively conceptualize and evaluate diverse points of view
and integrate their specialized knowledge in computer science across various
fields

•

Apply their knowledge to critically analyze and evaluate the various
conceptual frameworks in computer science

•

Utilize ethical principles in evaluating solutions, policies and practices
relevant to computer science

188 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Computer Science (MS)

•

Communicate effectively and persuasively utilizing both oral and written
modalities

Course Requirements
Master of Science 30 Credits
Course Credits
Core Courses 15 Credits (Complete 5 of the following 7 courses)
CS-502 Predictive Analytics 3
CS-507 Database Systems Implementation 3
CS-510 Algorithms 3
CS-604 Accelerated and Parallel Computing 3
CS-605 Intelligent Automation 3
CS-701 Artificial Intelligence 3
CS-714 Computer Science Seminar 3
Electives-5 courses (drawn from the following lists)
Artificial Intelligence
CS-511 Statistical Methods in Data Science 3
CS-610 Machine Learning and Neural Networks 3
CS-710 Big Data 3
CS-711 Computer Vision and Deep Learning 3
CS-716 Advanced Artificial Intelligence 3
Courses

Software Engineering
CS-505 Introduction to Software Design with UML 3
CS-506 Requirements/Resource Analysis 3
CS-512 Computer Language Design 3
CS-551 Software Testing 3
CS-552 Agile Methods 3
CS-705 Multithreaded and Distributed Programming 3
Other technical or other non-technical elective 3
All required courses are offered exclusively online. For descriptions of required
courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Construction Cybersecurity (MS)
The MS in Construction Cybersecurity degree program is designed to meet the growing
needs of today’s business and government where construction cybersecurity is now
a major consideration. This degree provides advanced graduate-level management
education where the latest construction cybersecurity concepts are reviewed and

189 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

analyzed with a laser focus. Throughout the program, the latest technological
developments, applications, and considerations in the construction industry are
explored and applied to real-life industry challenges. Students will learn optimum
methods and techniques in construction cybersecurity and how to define related
resources and associated risks at an executive level in order to maintain profitability,
manage work effectivity and efficiently, and ensure customer satisfaction.
Student Outcomes
•

Critically analyze cybersecurity problems within the construction industry,
synthesize the relevant information, and formulate solutions to attain desired
outcomes.

•

Identify, formulate, and solve complex construction cybersecurity problems
by selecting and applying appropriate tools and techniques.

•

Identify and synthesize problems in cybersecurity planning, tactics,
techniques, procedures, cost and decision analysis in order to develop
optimum solutions.

•

Conceptualize, apply and integrate effective strategies to use information
effectively in the cybersecurity decision-making process.

•

Evaluate executive decisions in the context of cybersecurity to determine the
potential impact on resources and profitability.

•

Evaluate the legal, social, economic, environmental, and global ramifications
of actions and decisions within construction cybersecurity

Course Requirements
Master of Science 30-36 Credits
Course Credits
Construction Required 12 Credits
CRI-501 Critical Infrastructure Introduction 3
CM-600 Cybersecurity Impacts on Construction Industry 3
CM-602 Construction Industry Software 3
CM-700 Construction Cybersecurity Research Project I 3
Cybersecurity Required 21 Credits
IAE-500 Introduction to Information Assurance* 3
IAE-630 SCADA Networks and ICS Security 3
IAE-675 Computer Forensics and Incident Handling 3

190 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

IAE-677 Malicious Software 3
IAE-679 Vulnerability Mitigation 3
IAE-682 Internal Protection 3
IAE-685 Principles of Cybersecurity 3
Computer Science 3 Credits
CS-620 Operating System Principles for Information Assurance** 3
*Students who can demonstrate knowledge of information assurance topics at an
undergraduate level either through undergraduate transcripts, certifications, or work
experience may have IAE500 waived with appropriate documentation which is evaluated
at the time of admission.
**Students who can demonstrate knowledge of the UNIX operating system and C
programming language may request that an appropriate elective be used to substitute
for CS-620 by contacting the department chair. Students are encouraged to substitute
IAE-621 or 673 if this course is waived or not taken.

The Master of Science (M.S.) in Counterterrorism degree is a unique program designed
to meet the long-standing needs of today’s business and government environments
for knowledge, methodologies and analytic tools involved in combatting terrorism. The
M.S. in Counterterrorism program will provide students with the opportunity to conduct
extensive and sustained, original research, including the application of methodologies
and software tools employed at the highest levels in the field of counterterrorism.
The M.S. in Counterterrorism is designed to meet the demands of the highest-skilled
professionals to become analysts and leaders who will be involved in the advancement,
expansion and support of the counterterrorism environment on a large and small scale.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Critically analyze problems, synthesize information, and formulate solutions
in the counterterrorism domains

•

Evaluate metrics of effectiveness in counterterrorism at the domestic,
regional, and global levels.

•

Integrate and apply advanced concepts, plans, processes, project
management, and team leadership skills that are required in the
counterterrorism filed.

•

Identify, formulate, and solve complex problems with appropriate

191 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Counterterrorism (MS)

counterterrorism tools and techniques.
•

Demonstrate knowledge of the impact of technology and technology-related
operations to Identify, analyze and defend against terrorism.

•

Demonstrate the ability to apply the latest concepts and techniques to
counterterrorism.

Course Requirements
Master of Science 30 Credits
Course Credits
Counterterrorism Core 21 Credits
CTR-600 Introduction to Terrorism and Counterterrorism 3
CTR-610 Methods of Terrorists 3
CTR-620 Elements of Counterterrorism 3
CTR-630 Methods of Counterterrorism 3
CTR-640 Tools and Techniques of Counterterrorism 3
CTR-680 Seminar in Terrorism and Counterterrorism 3
CTR-705 Counterterrorism Capstone Project 3
Intelligence and International Security Studies 3 Credits
INT-501 Intelligence, International Security, Counterterrorism, and Homeland Security
Integration 3

Courses

Critical Infrastructure 3 Credits
CRI-501 Critical Infrastructure Introduction 3
Cybersecurity 3 Credits
IAE-685 Principles of Cyber Security 3

Critical Infrastructure (MS)
The Master of Science in Critical Infrastructure is designed to meet the increasing
needs of the manufacturing and production industry. The program seeks to enable
graduates to address one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century: create a robust
and sustainable infrastructure that enables life as we know it. Students gain an in-depth
knowledge of the 16 critical infrastructure sectors and obtain a foundation in policy, risk
management, operations, and mission planning.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Critically analyze problems in a variety of disciplines and to Identify relevant

192 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

and useful information to support the attainment of desired outcomes.
•

Think critically by drawing appropriate conclusions from examining the output
of methodological applications in the Critical Infrastructure environment.

•

Conceptualize, apply and integrate effective strategies and to use information
effectively in the decision-making process.

•

Create robust and sustainable infrastructure that is resilient against multiple
threats and hazards.

•

Build operational, systems, and programmatic capabilities for detection,
protection, prevention, mitigation and response in the 16 sectors of Critical
Infrastructure.

•

Evaluate cyber in the context of data quality and security in order to determine
the potential impact on Critical Infrastructure information resources.

IAE-500 Introduction to Information Assurance 3
CS-620 Operating System Principles for Information Assurance* 3
CRI-501Critical Infrastructure Introduction 3
IAE-630 SCADA Networks and ICS Security 3
IAE-685 Principles of Cybersecurity 3
CRI-510 Critical Infrastructure I: Performance and Risk Analysis of Infrastructure 		
Systems 3
CRI-520 Critical Infrastructure II: Security Management of Critical Infrastructure 3
IAE-675 Computer Forensics and Incident Handling 3
IAE-677 Malicious Software 3
IAE-679 Vulnerability Mitigation 3
IAE-682 Internal Protection** 3
CRI-710 Critical Infrastructure Capstone 3
*Students who can demonstrate knowledge of the UNIX operating system and C
programming language may request that an appropriate elective be used to substitute
for CS-620 by contacting the department chair.
** It is recommended that students complete IAE-685 before taking this course,
but this is not a requirement. Students who can either demonstrate knowledge of
information assurance topics at an undergraduate level through undergraduate
transcripts, certifications, or work experience may have IAE-500 waived with appropriate
documentation, which is evaluated at the time of admission.

193 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Course Requirements
Master of Science 30-36 Credits
Course Credits

All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Cyber Analytics (MS)
The Master of Science in Cyber Analytics is designed to meet the needs of government,
industry and non-profits to evaluate the statistical data generated by their computing
infrastructure to determine the state of the organization’s security posture on an
ongoing basis. These statistics are often referred to generically as Big Data, but the
reality is this information must be combined with relevant facts specific to the entity
such as competitors, market position and socio-political factors to determine the threat
landscape. This program combines a strong foundation in cybersecurity with hands-on
project-based coursework providing analytic experience that can be applied to a wide
range of growing concerns.
Student Outcomes
•

Analyze a complex computing problem and to apply principles of computing
and analytic tools to Identify solutions..

•

Design, implement, and Evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given
set of computing requirements in the context of the program’s discipline.

•

Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts.

•

Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in
computing practice based on legal and ethical principles.

•

Function effectively as a member or leader of a team engaged in activities
appropriate to the program’s discipline.

•

Apply data analytic principles and practices to maintain operations in the
presence of risks and threats

Course Requirements
Master of Science 36-39 Credits
Course Credits
Cybersecurity 24-27 Credits
IAE-500 Introduction to Information Assurance* 3
CS-620 Operating Systems Principles for Information Assurance** 3
IAE-685 Principles of Cybersecurity*** 3
IAE-640 Access and Identity Management 3
IAE-673 Secure Information Transfer and Storage 3
194 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

IAE-679 Vulnerability Mitigation 3
IAE-690 Healthcare Info System Security 3
IAE-692 Mobile Medical Device/Application Security 3
IAE-705 Master’s Capstone**** 3
Cyber Analytics 12 Credits
MBA-510 Analytics and Decision Analysis 3
MBA-515 Applied Statistics and Visualization for Analytics 3
MBA-520 Big Data Warehousing and Analytic Systems 3
MBA-540 Web Analytics 3
*IAE-500 can be waived with appropriate documentation.
**Course substitution can be granted for CS-620 for students who demonstrate
knowledge of UNIX and C programming.
***IAE-685 is a prerequisite to all other IAE courses.
****This course is to be the last course taken in the degree completion process.
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

The Master of Research (M.Res.) in Cyberpsychology degree is a unique program
designed to meet the long-standing needs of disseminating research skills to those
working with and dealing with the psychology related to all aspects of cybersecurity.
The proposed M.Res. in Cyberpsychology degree is for current professionals in the
field of cyber and those with associate knowledge that is needed to be incorporated
into research. The University is in a unique position to give those students an avenue to
pursue a deep proficiency in this area using an interdisciplinary methodology, cuttingedge courses, and dynamic faculty. Graduates will contribute significantly to the Cyber
Psychology field through the creation of new knowledge and ideas. The M.Res. in
Cyberpsychology program is designed as a degree by research where students will
quickly become able to engage in leadership, research, and publishing. It is aimed
at those that may want to explore research studies before starting a Doctorate by
research. Likewise, those that work in research and want a master’s qualification but in
a subject specific to their work.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Evaluate the need for Cyberpsychology research.

•

Recognize areas where research is needed in Cyberpsychology.

195 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Cyberpsychology (M.Res.)

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in quantitative and
qualitative methodologies.

•

Plan a research topic in Cyberpsychology.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in
Cyberpsychology and defend the work before their peers.

Course Requirements
Master of Research 30 Credits
Course Credits
CYP-700 Fundamentals of Graduate Research & Design 6
CYP-710 Ethics & Philosophy of Research & Data Collection 6
CPY-715 Cyber Psychology Research Proposal 6
CPY-725 Cyber Psychology Research & Data Collection 6
CPY-735 Cyber Psychology Thesis and Defense 6
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

The Master of Science in Cybersecurity is structured to meet the needs of government
and industry to understand, prepare for, respond to, and recover from threats to our
information infrastructures. The main objective of the program is to provide information
system and security professionals with in-depth instruction on new security ideas,
concepts and techniques to prevent and react to malicious intrusion and to secure
information assets. The National Security Agency and Department of Homeland
Security have designated Capitol Technology University a National Center of Academic
Excellence in Information Assurance Education.
The Master of Science in Cyber and Information Security curriculum is mapped to
all current federal domains at the most advanced level specified in the standards,
and also covers the 8 domains of the CISSP (Certified Information Systems Security
Professional), considered the gold standard certification.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Evaluate diverse points of view and integrate their specialized knowledge in
Cybersecurity across various technology applications.

•

Engage in critical inquiry.

196 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Cybersecurity (MS)

•

Consider ethical principles in evaluating solutions, policies and practices
relevant to Cybersecurity.

•

Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts.

•

Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in
cybersecurity practice based on legal and ethical principles.

•

Apply security principles and practices to maintain operations in the presence
of risks and threats.

Core Courses 27-30 Credits
IAE-500 Introduction to Information Assurance* 3
CS-620 Operating Principles for Information Assurance* 3
IAE-671 Legal Aspects of Computer Security and Information Privacy 3
IAE-675 Computer Forensics and Incident Handling 3
IAE-677 Malicious Software 3
IAE-679 Vulnerability Mitigation 3
IAE-680 Perimeter Protection 3
IAE-682 Internal Protection 3
IAE-685 Principles of Cybersecurity 3
IAE-674 Security Risk Management Capstone 3
Electives (Choose 3 courses) 9 Credits
CS-713 Design of Cloud Networks and Services 3
IAE-611 Wireless Security 3
IAE-620 Mobile Device Forensics 3
IAE-621 Applied Wireless Network Security 3
IAE-640 Access and Identity Management 3
IAE-684 Complementary Security (CISSP) 3
IAE-690 Healthcare Info System Security 3
IAE-692 Mobile Medical Device Application Security 3
MBA-510 Analytics and Decisions Analytics
MBA-515 Applied Statistics and Visualization Analysis
MBA-520 Big Data Warehousing and Analytical Systems
MBA-646 Federal Contract Project Management
*IAE-500 and CS-620 can be waived with department chair or dean approval. A course
substitution is required for CS-620, if waived.
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

197 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Course Requirements
Master of Science 36-39 Credits
Course Credits

Engineering Technology (MS)
The Master of Science in Engineering Technology is structured to educate students to
design and develop applications from the inception stage through the manufacturing,
testing and delivery of a product. The program provides traditional engineers with the
fundamentals of design, modeling, analysis, and construction, as well as government
and industry regulations.
Students study mathematical analysis, professional management, and advanced
concepts of design for reliability, manufacturability and testability with an emphasis on
the practical applications that meet industrial, military and international standards.
Student Outcomes
•

Evaluate diverse points of view and integrate specialized knowledge across
various engineering technology fields.

•

Engage in critical inquiry.

•

Consider ethical principles in evaluating technical solutions, policies and
practices.

Course Requirements
Master of Science 30 Credits
Course Credits
Core Courses 18 Credits
EE-600 Mathematical Analysis 3
MBA-600 Fundamentals of Professional Management 3
MBA-635 Technology-Enabled Operations 3
MBA-627 Impact of Emerging Technology on Management and Public Administration 3
EE-710 Designing for Reliability and Manufacturability 3
EE-720 Designing for Testability 3
Capstone Courses 6 Credits
EE-708 Master’s Project Research 3
EE-758 Master’s Project 3
Recommended Electives (Choose 2 Courses) 6 Credits
IAE-674 Security Risk Management 3
IAE-671 Legal Aspects of Cybersecurity and Information Privacy 3
MBA-615 Financial Management 3
MBA-616 Financial and Contract Management 3
MBA-625 Organizational Behavior in a Technical Environment 3

198 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

MBA-631 Technical Personnel Management 3
MBA-646 Federal Contract Project Management 3
MBA-650 Strategic Management 3
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Healthcare Data Analytics (MS)
The Master of Science in Healthcare Data Analytics degree is a unique program
designed to meet the rapidly evolving needs of the healthcare system. With the rise
in patient visits, research information, and administrative duties, there is an increase
in the amount of data that needs to be managed. Innovation and support of the
healthcare industry is becoming critical, and leaders in cybersecurity, analytics, and
technology management are imperative to a thriving healthcare industry. With the
growing demands of telehealth, data privacy, and cybersecurity, a number of healthcare
tech companies are emerging and looking to serve the evolving healthcare market. As
medical technologies improve and the current healthcare climate changes with the
needs of the community, the demand for companies to create scalable solutions for a
larger patient population is critical.

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Graduates will incorporate the theoretical basis and practical applications of
aspects in healthcare into their professional work

•

Graduates will disseminate their knowledge in their industry to ensure its
success

•

Graduates will evaluate complex problems synthesize divergent/alternative/
contradictory perspectives and ideas fully, and develop advanced solutions to
Leadership challenges

•

Graduates will contribute to the body of knowledge in the study on the global
stage

Course Requirements
Master of Science 30 Credits
Course Credits
Master of Science Healthcare Data Analytics Courses
MHA-500 The Business of Healthcare 2

199 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Student Outcomes

MHA-510 Compliance 2
MHA-520 Quality 2
MHA-530 Utilization Management 2
MHA-540 Operations in Healthcare 2
MHA-550 Information Technology in Healthcare 2
MHA-560 Physician Education and GMEs 1
MHA-570 Medicare Risk Adjustment 2
IAE-685 Principles of Cyber Security 3
MHA-700 Fundamentals of Graduate Research & Design 6
MHA-740 Graduate Thesis 6

This distinctive program is designed to educate, train and prepare candidates to
advance in national security-based academic, government (including intelligence,
military and law enforcement agencies), and private sector communities. The Master
of Science (M.S.) in Intelligence and Global Security degree is a unique program
designed to educate, train and prepare the university’s Master’s students to advance in
national security-based academic, government (including intelligence, military and law
enforcement agencies), and private sector (e.g., corporations) communities by enabling
them to demonstrate expertise in the necessary knowledge and skills to address
multidisciplinary international and national security threats with cutting edge analysis,
methodologies, and software-based tools. The students will also learn to apply practical
techniques and concepts to produce intelligence-related types of reports, briefings, and
infographics for a variety of “customers,” whether in government the private sector, or
academia.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

GIntegrate and synthesize theory and intel within the field of Intelligence and
Global Security

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies in Intelligence and
Global Security

•

Analyze theories, tools and frameworks used in Intelligence and Global
Security.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in Intelligence
and Global Security

•

Critique human skills and practices for selecting teams that work in
Intelligence and Global Security

200 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Intelligence and Global Security (MS) Starting Spring 2023

Course Requirements
Master of Science 30 Credits
Course Credits
INT-501 Introduction to Intelligence and Global Security 3
INT-510 Theories of Global Security 3
INT-520 Components of National Power 3
INT-600 The Intelligence Community, Intelligence Processes, and Intelligence Analytic
Methods in Global Security 3
INT-610 Intelligence Software Tools in Global Security 3
CTR-600 Introduction to Terrorism and Counterterrorism 3
CTR-650 Comparative Homeland Security 3
CTR-660 Comparative Cyber Security 3
INT-700 Seminar in Intelligence and Global Security I 3
INT-710 Seminar in Intelligence and Global Security II 3

Occupational Safety and Health (MS)

Courses

The Masters of Science in Occupational Safety and Health is recognized as a Qualified
Academic Program (QAP) by the Board of Certified Safety Professionals (BCSP),
meeting the qualified credential requirement for the Certified Safety Professional (CSP)
certification. You will acquire a strong foundation in safety, risk management, and
management skills.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

evaluate the legal and ethical principles applicable to Construction Safety and
demonstrate the ability to apply these principles in the leadership decisionmaking process.

•

integrate theory and the practice of Construction Safety in the process of
complex problem solving within the occupational health and safety field.

•

demonstrate a mastery of traditional and technological techniques of
communications ideas effectively and persuasively in the occupational health
and safety environment in construction.

•

demonstrate and apply in-depth knowledge as it relates to Construction
Safety.

•

contribute effectively to the achievement of organizational construction
safety goals in a team environment.

•

demonstrate the highly developed communication and collaboration skills

201 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

required of effective Construction Safety professionals.
Master of Science in Occupational Safety and Health - 36 credits
SAF-600 Construction Safety Math and Metrics 3
SAF-610 Advanced Industrial Hygiene (Prerequisite: SAF-600)
3
SAF-620 Advanced Hazardous Materials (Prerequisite: SAF-600)
3
SAF-630 Advanced Environmental Management (Prerequisite: SAF-600) 3
SAF-640 Construction Ergonomics (Prerequisite: SAF-600) 3
SAF-650 Specific Construction Hazards 3
SAF-660 Construction Safety Program Development (Prerequisite: SAF-650)
3
SAF-670 Advanced Safety Management Systems (Prerequisite: SAF-660) 3
SAF-680 Construction Risk Management Methods (Prerequisite: SAF-670) 3
SAF-700 Safety in Facilities and Capital Construction 3
SAF-710 Training Performance and Evaluation 3
SAF-720 Construction Safety Leadership (Prerequisites: SAF-610, SAF-620, SAF-630,
SAF-640, SAF-680, SAF-700, and SAF-710)

The Master of Science in Product Management provides students with the opportunity
to conduct extensive and sustained original research at an advanced level in the field
of Product Management. Product Management has evolved recently to a hybrid of
scientific reasoning and research, business management, cutting-edge technology,
operational analysis, marketing, supply, logistics, and sustainability. The MS in Product
Management is a unique master’s degree program designed to meet the demands of
the highly skilled professionals who want to become the leaders who will be involved in
the advancement, expansion, and support of product management on both a large and
small scale.
The MS in Product Management is for current professionals in the field who
desire to increase their skills to an advanced level and become leaders in Product
Management. The MS in Product Management also provides a path for personnel in the
Product Management field to explore new ground as this section of the industry faces
revolutionary changes in highly competitive local, national, and global markets.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Develop a comprehensive product development and management strategy for
a unique, superior product that delivers a compelling value proposition to the
customer.

202 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Product Management (MS)

•

Demonstrate an advanced ability to use market research methods and
techniques to create new products.

•

Analyze successful market-driven, customer-focused product development
processes.

•

Demonstrate a superior ability to apply the tools and metrics that are required
to underpin a successful new product process.

•

Develop portfolio product management plans in a cross-functional manner
that encompasses the development of new products through to launch and
an on-going review of existing products to ensure optimal alignment with
strategy and resource availability.

•

Demonstrate highly detailed knowledge of the organizational culture and
environment that is required to foster product innovation.

•

Analyze and formulate the stages of the product life cycle, including product
management and product development strategies for each stage.

•

Demonstrate a superior understanding of sustainability with specific
emphasis on sustainable innovation as applied to innovation strategy and
product design.

Required Courses 27 Credits
PRM-500 Becoming the Successful Product Manager 3
PRM-510 Winning Product Management Strategies, Roadmaps, and Business Cases 3
PRM-520 New Products Process 3
PRM-530 Product Management Tools and Metrics 3
PRM-540 Leveraging Expert Systems, Big Data, and Business Analytics for Product
Management 3
PRM-600 Designing and Developing Great Products 3
PRM-610 Managing the Life of a Product 3
PRM-625 Product Management Culture, Organizations, and Teams 3
PRM-635 Technology-Enabled Product Management Operations 3
Capstone Course 3 Credits
PRM-700 Product Management Capstone 3

Sustainability (M.Res.)
The Master of Research (M.Res.) in Sustainability degree is a unique program designed
to meet the long-standing needs of disseminating research skills to those working with
and dealing with the sustainability and in particular the engineering aspects related to

203 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Course Requirements
Master of Science 30 Credits
Course Credits

all aspects of design, manufacturing and resources. Students will quickly become able
to engage in leadership, research, and publishing. It is aimed at those that may want to
explore research studies before starting a Doctorate by research. Likewise, those that
work in research and want a master’s qualification but in a subject specific to their work.
Sustainability in engineering is becoming more technical and managing this requires
higher skills in a larger percentage of the workforce.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Evaluate the need for the applications of sustainability research.

•

Recognize areas of research needed to maintain a sustainable future.

•

Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competencies needed in quantitative
and qualitative methodologies.

•

Plan a research topic in sustainability.

•

Execute a plan to complete a significant piece of scholarly work in
sustainability and defend this before their academic peers.

SUS-700 Fundamentals of Graduate Research & Design 6
SUS-710 Ethics & Philosophy of Research & Data Collection 6
SUS-715 Sustainability Research Proposal 6
SUS-725 Sustainability Research & Data Collection 6
SUS-735 Sustainability Thesis and Defense 6

Technical MBA in Business Analytics and Data Science (TMBA)
The Technical Master of Business Administration in Business Analytics and Data
Science allows students to integrate business and analytical decision-making skills
in a technologically complex business environment. Students learn how the business
of for-profit and non-profit organizations meld to function successfully. The Business
Analytics and Data Science core courses prepare students to structure, transform,
and analyze data to gain insights that will provide opportunities to improve business
intelligence and managerial decision making. The required courses build a solid
foundation encompassing technology, management, marketing, accounting and
finance.

204 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Course Requirements
Master of Business Administration 30 Credits
Course Credits

Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Critically analyze problems in a variety of disciplines and to Identify relevant
and useful information to support the attainment of desired outcomes.

•

Think critically by drawing appropriate conclusions from examining the output
of methodological applications of applied analytics.

•

Conceptualize, apply and integrate effective strategies to acquire, store,
analyze and deploy information effectively.

•

Evaluate data management technologies in the context of data quality,
and security and privacy regulations to determine their potential impact on
information resources.

Core Courses 24-27 Credits
MBA-600 Fundamentals of Professional Management* 3
MBA-615 Financial Management 3
MBA-616 Financial and Contract Management 3
MBA-625 Organizational Behavior in Technical Environment 3
MBA-627 Impact of Emerging Technology on Management and Public Administration 3
MBA-631 Technical Personnel Management 3
MBA-635 Technology-Enabled Operations 3
MBA-646 Federal Contract Project Management 3
MBA-650 Strategic Management 3
Business Analytics 12 Credits
MBA-510 Analytics and Decision Analysis 3
MBA-515 Applied Statistics and Visualization for Analytics 3
MBA-520 Big Data Warehousing and Analytic Systems 3
MBA-540 Web Analytics 3
*MBA-600 is required for students without a recent undergraduate business degree
(completed within the past 5 years) or relevant professional experience.
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

205 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Course Requirements
Master of Business Administration 36-39 Credits
Course Credits

Technical MBA in Cybersecurity (TMBA)
The Technical Master of Business Administration in Cybersecurity provides students
with a foundation in technology, management, marketing, and business. Graduates
will be able to apply their skills and knowledge of the business world to everyday
work situations in the general business environment and cybersecurity. While
studying business and cybersecurity at the graduate level, the student will learn how
organizations function. Students will develop a clear picture of how business areas
meld to create a successful organization. The required courses will build a solid
foundation that encompasses technology, management, marketing, accounting, finance,
Information Technology and human resource management. The student will learn to
analyze patterns, employ technological tools and to drive business decisions in the
cybersecurity field.
Student Outcomes
•

Critically analyze problems in a variety of disciplines and to Identify relevant
and useful information to support the attainment of desired outcomes.

•

Think critically by drawing appropriate conclusions from examining the output
of methodological applications in the business environment.

•

Conceptualize, apply and integrate effective strategies and to use information
effectively in the decision-making process.

•

Evaluate cyber in the context of data quality, and security and privacy
regulations to determine their potential impact on information resources.

Course Requirements
Master of Business Administration 36-39 Credits
Course Credits
Core Courses 24-27 Credits
MBA-600 Fundamentals of Professional Management* 3
MBA-615 Financial Management 3
MBA-616 Financial and Contract Management 3
MBA-625 Organizational Behavior in Technical Environment 3
MBA-627 Impact of Emerging Technology on Management and Public Administration 3
MBA-631 Technical Personnel Management 3
MBA-635 Technology-Enabled Operations 3
MBA-646 Federal Contract Project Management 3
MBA-650 Strategic Management 3

206 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon graduation, graduates will be able to

Cybersecurity 12 Credits
IAE-685 Principles of Cybersecurity 3
IAE-684 Complementary Security 3
IAE-671 Legal Aspects of Cybersecurity and Information Privacy 3
IAE-674 Security Risk Management 3
*MBA-600 is required for students without a recent undergraduate business degree
(completed within the past 5 years) or relevant professional experience.
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.

Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Policy (MS)

Courses

The Master of Science in Unmanned and Autonomous Systems (UAS) Policy provides
students with the necessary training needed to become a professional in the field.
The degree provides a foundation in flight operations, mission planning, special
sensors, weapons, surveillance and data collection. Students will develop policy and
risk management plans, as well as gain an understanding of aeronautical engineering,
technology, and ground control. Students can also become certified Unmanned Aerial
Systems Operator and support governmental and commercial employers. A special
optional course will prepare students to pass the Federal Aviation Administration Part
107 test to become a commercial UAV Remote Pilot.
Student Outcomes
Upon graduation, graduates will be able to
•

Plan the policy and risk management of the major types, groups, and
categories of Unmanned and Autonomous Systems.

•

Define all aspects of the Unmanned and Autonomous Systems policies and
risk management plans and develop the same.

•

Create appropriate policies and risk management plans for the legal and
ethical considerations for specific types of Unmanned and Autonomous
Systems.

•

Develop policies and risk management plans for the multiple types of sensors
used for data collection aboard Unmanned and Autonomous Systems.

•

Develop policies and risk management plans for the types of detect, sense
and avoid systems.

•

Differentiate the various levels of UAS automation and autonomy and
associated policies and risk management plans and techniques.

207 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

•

Define the proper UAS safety policy, procedures, and risk management.

Course Requirements
Core Courses 33 Credits
UAS-501 Introduction to Unmanned and Autonomous Systems 3
UAS-502 Unmanned and Autonomous Vehicle Systems 3
UAS-510 Unmanned Systems Autonomy and Automation 3
UAS-520 Unmanned Systems Sensing, Perception, and Processing 3
UAS-530 User Interface for Design and Evaluation 3
UAS-640 Data Analysis and Visualization 3
UAS-650 Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Laws, Regulations, and Policy 3
UAS-660 Safety Management Systems and Unmanned and Autonomous Systems
Cybersecurity 3
UAS-670 Unmanned and Autonomous Management for Managers 3
UAS-710 Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Capstone Project I 3
UAS-720 Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Capstone Project II 3
Optional Course
UAS-500 UAS Operator Certification* 1.5
All required courses are offered exclusively online in an 8-week asynchronous format.
For descriptions of required courses, see listing beginning on page 211.
Courses

*May be added to the required 33 credits above.

Post-Baccalaureate Certificates
The post-baccalaureate certificates are designed for systems managers and
information assurance professionals seeking to update their skills. Certificate students
may only apply one relevant transfer course to certificate requirements. No course
substitutions are permitted and students must complete all remaining coursework at
Capitol Technology University. Once the course requirements are completed, students
must apply for the certificate through the Office of Registration and Records. A $25
processing fee is due with the certificate request. A student must have a minimum
cumulative GPA of 3.0 in all certificate coursework to be awarded the certificate. The
courses required for these certificates are offered exclusively online.

Digital Forensics and Incident Handling (12 credits)
This certificate prepares students to analyze computer systems and components such
as hard drives, memory, networks and mobile devices.
Required Courses
IAE-620 Mobile Device Forensics 3
208 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

IAE-675 Computer Forensics and Incident Handling 3
IAE-677 Malicious Software 3
CS-620 Operating System Principles for Information Assurance 3

Information Technology (12 credits)
This certificate provides a foundation in information technology, data mining and
intelligent systems.
Required Courses
MBA-650 Strategic Management 3
CS-502 Predictive Analytics 3
CS-604 Intelligent Automation 3
SM-569 Decision Support and Expert Systems 3

Healthcare Systems Security (12 credits)
This certificate provides a foundation in comprehensive privacy and security for
healthcare organizations. The program is structured to emphasize the intersection
between healthcare and cybersecurity.
Required Courses

Security Management (12 credits)
This certificate provides students with an understanding of network systems
security, including detection, recovery, damage control, and privacy laws. Students
are i ntroduced to critical issues, including user involvement, security training, ethics,
trust and informed management. Subject matter includes secure data transfer and
storage with a history of cryptography and a study of public- and private-key algorithms.
The program also addresses risk management, intellectual property, security policy
formulation and enforcement, as well as computer forensics and incident handling.
Required Courses
IAE-640 Access and Identity Management 3
IAE-674 Security Risk Management 3
IAE-684 Complementary Security (CISSP) 3
IAE-685 Principles of Cybersecurity 3

Secure Cloud Computing (12 credits)
Required Courses
IAE-680 Perimeter Protection

209 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IAE-674 Security Risk Management 3
IAE-690 Healthcare Information Security 3
IAE-692 Mobile Medical Device/App Security 3
CS-710 Big Data Warehousing and Analytics Systems 3

CS-620 Operating Principles for Information Assurance
CS-710 Big Data Warehousing and Analytics System
CS-713 Design of Cloud Networks and Services

Secure Mobile Technology (12 credits)
Required Courses
IAE-611 Mobile Computing Security
IAE-620 Mobile Device Forensics
IAE-621 Applied Wireless Network Security
IAE-677 Malicious Software

Professional Development and Workforce Training
Capitol Technology University provides workforce professional education and training
for a variety of corporate and government needs. The university specializes in offering
practical, cutting edge educational programs in cybersecurity, IT, engineering, data
analytics, unmanned systems applications and computer science. Training programs
can be tailored to meet students’ unique needs. Programs can be on-site, on campus, or
online.

Courses

Capitol’s faculty is comprised of industry leaders from technical areas such as Identity,
Credentialing, and Access Management and Amazon Web Services, to managerial
areas, including project management and business analytics.

210 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses
Course Descriptions
The numbers in parentheses indicate the following: for undergraduate (in sequence)
class hours – laboratory hours – semester credit hours; for graduate, the number of
semester credit hours. Students must have completed the listed prerequisite or its
equivalent before registering for a course.

AE-100 - Introduction to Astronomy
Provides a general overview of topics in astronomy. Includes the history and evolution
of our understanding of the solar system, stars, galaxies, and cosmos. Basic processes
that explain observations of phenomenon in our universe are discussed. May be used
as a science elective. Corequisite: MA 114. Offered during Spring semester only. (3-0-3)
AE-150 - Introduction to Space
Introduces the student to elements of astronomy and space sciences, the history of
NASA and earth missions and operations and simple physics of satellite orbits, types
of orbits and orbital terminology. Space environment and its effects on satellite and
equipment. Discussion of satellites, types of satellites and their uses. Prerequisite: MA
114 or Corequisite: MA-261. Offered during Fall semester only. (3-0-3)

This course covers the basic theory and practical knowledge to use, operate, manage, or
conduct tests in vacuum chambers. Terminology, equipment, and methods of obtaining
and maintaining vacuum environments, especially regarding space simulation testing
are covered. Topics will include types of vacuum pumps, system components, vacuum
gauges, fittings, flanges, materials, and their integration. Basic test procedures and
standards. (3-0-3)
AE-205 - CubeSat Engineering
End-to-end rapid development of a CubeSat-type satellite sensor system, power bus,
and Arduino-based CPU. Students will form multi-disciplinary teams to collectively
build, integrate and test a working design. Emphasis on design formalism, key trades,
resource calculations, and integration of systems. Recipes and hardware components
will be provided. Prerequisites: AE-150 or CS-130 or EL-100. (3-2-2)
AE-250 - Ground Systems Engineering
Introduces the components that make up a satellite ground system. Included is the
design and analysis of ground system components. Provides an introduction into
satellite telemetry, command, and control subsystems, as well as the software needed
to build and run a ground system. Introduction to CCSDS standards and mission

211 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

AE-200 - High Vacuum Testing Techniques

planning. Prerequisite: AE-150. Offered during Spring semester only. (3-0-3)
AE-260 - Ground Systems Testing
In this course, students will study software testing techniques that are applicable to
any satellite ground system. Topics covered include what is a ground system and
why we test, different types of ground system testing, developing test cases, creating
test matrices and reports, writing testing requirements and understanding different
requirement level, what defines a good test / bad test, and SFOTC automated testing.
Prerequisite: AE-250 or permission of the instructor/department chair. (3-0-3)
AE-311 - Spacecraft Systems
Design of spacecraft for different applications and missions. Passive and active
devices. Designing with redundancy and reliability. Heating and cooling thermal issues.
Power handling, telemetry, and communications with antenna design. Propulsion,
Thrusters, and maneuvering. Command and control systems. Prerequisite: AE-150 or
equivalent background. Offered during Fall semester only. (3-0-3)

Provides an in-depth introduction to the components that compose satellite ground
systems in the commercial, military, and civil sectors from the inception of the space
program to present day. Discusses conceptual and planned software development,
integration, and testing, launch operations, sustainment engineering, decommissioning
of ground systems components and the system engineering processes involved
in these activities. Introduces students to the tools and methods needed to create
dynamic ground system components based on automation and autonomic principles.
Cover CCSDS, ISO-900X, CMMI, UML, mission planning, flight dynamics principles and
risk mitigation/anomaly resolution practices. Introduces STOL, CECIL, XML, and XTCE
languages. Prerequisites: AE-150, CS-150 and EN-102. Corequisite: AE-311. Offered
during Fall semester only. (3-0-3)
AE-351 - Orbital Mechanics
Newton’s equations and Kepler’s laws. Use of spherical coordinates to solve for orbital
equations. Corrections to basic equations caused by earth’s geometry, the moon, and
the sun. Other effects depending on orbital parameters. Corequisite: MA-340. Offered
during Fall semester only. (3-0-3)
AE-361 - Remote Sensing
This is an introductory remote sensing and sensor course with a focus on methods,
instruments and techniques used to obtain satellite imagery. Students will be
introduced to physical principles of remote sensing, Earth and other planetary observing
systems and sensors, and various digital processing techniques related to satellite
sensing imagery. Topics include optics, solar radiation, principles of satellite imaging,
image quality analysis, introduction to charged coupled devices (CCDs), and basics of

212 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

AE-350 - Autonomous Ground Systems

sensor design. Prerequisite: PH-262 and AE-150. Offered during Spring semester only.
(3-0-3)
AE-390 - Aviation Meteorology
Prepares students with the knowledge necessary to comprehend the fundamentals
of meteorology, analyze weather factors, hazards and in-flight weather conditions and
weather conditions as they relate to aircraft and flight performance using aviation
meteorology charts and internet weather resources. Prerequisite: None. (3-0-3)
AE-400 - Special Topics in Astronautical Engineering
Research into astronautical engineering subjects. Student primarily works in a guided
study format with a mentor. (3-0-3)
AE-401 - Computational Dynamics
Advanced Orbital Mechanics: Effects of various gravitational variations of the earth,
moon sun and other bodies on orbital equations. Perturbation and modeling of orbital
equations. Use of numerical methods and commercial computer modeling to determine
orbital paths. Prerequisites: MA-340 and AE-351. Offered during Spring semester only.
(3-0-3)
AE-402 - Special Topics in Astronautical Engineering II

AE-411 - Space Systems Engineering
Understand the basic principles and processes for designing effective systems,
including how to determine customer needs vs wants. Students will learn how to
translate customer requirements into designs for systems that provide required
performance and that are reliable, supportable, and maintainable throughout the system
life cycle. Explore illustrative case studies. Team projects are assigned. Written reports
and oral presentations are required. This is the undergraduate version of AE-611.
Prerequisites: AE-311 and AE-351. (3-0-3)
AE-451 - Propulsion
Introduction to rocket engineering, space missions and thrust requirements, liquid and
solid-fueled rockets, nuclear and electric propulsion, and propellant thermodynamics.
Prerequisites: AE-351. (3-0-3)
AE-454 - Spacecraft Attitude and Control
Analysis of methods of monitoring maintaining and controlling spacecraft attitude
and positioning. Propulsion systems. Effects of gravity gradients, space environment
and atmospheric drag. Stabilization using controllers, actuators, sensors, and impulse
devices. Design of control subsystems. Systems engineering approach. Corequisite: EE-

213 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Research into astronautical engineering subjects. Student primarily works in a guided
study format with a mentor. (3-0-3)

309 or EE-453 Offered during Spring semester only. (3-0-3).
AE-455 - Satellite Communications
Analysis of satellite communications systems. Communications subsystems, telemetry,
tracking and monitoring, data handling, satellite link design, propagation effects,
modulation techniques and performance, error control. Satellite control networks SN,
GN. TDRSS systems, positioning command and control. Prerequisites: AE-311 and MA262 or equivalent. Offered during Fall semester only. (2-2-3)
AE-457 - Senior Design Project I
Students/teams select a project, develop an understanding of the project scope that
includes research and documentation of related work, prepare a feasibility study,
develop project requirements (constraints) and engineering, software, and/or security
specifications, propose solutions and multiple designs, analyze proposed designs,
select a final proposed design, and prepare and present a preliminary design review
(PDR). Students are expected to apply proper systems engineering and project
management to their work. Additional components may be required in some projects.
Students/teams submit a final report at the end of the semester. Prerequisite: Senior
standing. (3-0-3)

Students/teams build and test their selected designs (completed in AE-457). Each
student team delivers a tested prototype and defends its project in front of a panel of
experts. Students/teams submit a final report that includes description of the design,
realization, and test processes as well as test results, discussion, and conclusion.
Failure to deliver a completed design and a working prototype that meets engineering,
software, and/or security specifications by the end of the semester may result in failing
the course. *Note: Course must be completed with a grade of “C” or higher to meet
undergraduate graduation requirements. Prerequisite AE-457. (3-0-3)
AE-463 - Space Systems Engineering Simulation & Modeling
This course focuses on software-based simulation relating to current era space and
ground operations industry toolkits. The course has four components: basic concepts,
use of the STK toolkit and other network simulation tools such as OPNET, evaluation
of a COTS system, and student presentations and papers. The initial lectures will
cover both the basics of per-component computational modeling as well as end-toend concerns mission and information assurance requirements for real-world fullscale systems. There will be additional focus on a risk-based approach to securing
such communications systems based on confidentiality, integrity, and availability
of data. Students will then work with the Satellite Tool Kit (STK) (and other network
simulation tools) to model a single discrete space asset or a multi-component ground
communications system, including preparation for the STK Certification Exam. The
student will then model their own scenario using mission modeling software. Finally,
each student will present their specific scenario to the class, including critical analysis
214 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

AE-458 - Senior Design Project II

(report) of advantages and deficiencies in the tool of choice in terms of end-to-end
systems engineering to include information and mission assurance concerns. Offered
during Spring semester only. (3)
AE-700 - Fundamentals of Graduate Research & Design
Project I will introduce the fundamentals of graduate research and design. The project
will focus on graduate level writing, APA style, and the fundamentals of scientific inquiry.
The project will cover the areas of technology research, ethics of research, the stages of
the research process, conceptualization and operationalization of research questions,
data collection techniques, analytics, an Introduction to qualitative and quantitative
methods and measurement, a discussion of program evaluation research, and research
proposal development. (6)
AE-710 - Ethics & Philosophy of Research & Data Collection
Students will study research ethics, data collection, qualitative and quantitative methods
of various research. Assignments and case studies are used to enhance the learning
objectives and applications to prepare for the next three courses. (6)
AE-715 - Astronautical Engineering Proposal

AE-725 - Astronautical Engineering Research & Data Collect
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives and
include a timing plan. The student will then complete the research milestones according
to the proposal and research plan. The IRB will need to be completed by this stage. (6)
AE-735 - Astronautical Engineering Thesis & Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and M.Res. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
M.Res. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient
and necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
AE-800 - Astronautical Engineering Research
The student will focus on the study of the latest Astronautical Engineering strategies,
tactics and developments. The student will synthesize the growing effect of
Astronautical Engineering on current operations, international relationships and effects
on the field, and where there are areas of improvements or failings. The faculty will

215 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Under a Chair, a student will further research the future demands in the Astronautical
Engineering field and how these influence specific research questions. Data collection
and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Aviation on the short,
medium, and long term. The literature review will be more specific in focus and direction
at this stage. The ARB will be completed at this stage. (6)

directly support and mentor the exploration phase of the planning. (6)
AE-810 - AE Research Methodologies
Under a Chair and committee, a student will continue evaluating and develop research
methodologies and strategies suitable for understanding Astronautical Engineering
and address the data sources, information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis or
research question. It is expected the student will be building upon AE-800 in refining
and developing their research task and plan.
AE-820 - Astronautical Engineering Future Demands
Under a Chair and committee, a student will further research the future demands in the
Astronautical Engineering field and how these influence specific research questions.
Data collection and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Astronautical
Engineering on the short, medium, and long term. The literature review will be more
specific in focus and direction at this stage.
AE-830 - Strategies for Astronautical Engineering
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the Astronautical Engineering field under the direction of
their Chair/committee. A firm direction and draft of a methodology will be taking shape
and direction. The topic will be reviewed to ensure the scope is not too broad.

The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives
and include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research
milestones according to the proposal and research plan. The IRB and ARB will need to
be completed by this stage.
AE-900 - Astronautical Engineering Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. The material for these
chapters will have been established in the 800 series. Any disagreement within the
committee will be reviewed by the Dean of Doctoral Programs.
AE-910 - Astronautical Engineering Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 (methodology chapter that is robust
and identifies all implications) according to the approved proposal. After receiving the
necessary approvals, the student will conduct data collection and analysis activities
consistent with the research plan.

216 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

AE-840 - Astronautical Engineering Research Proposal

AE-920 - Astronautical Engineering Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance.
AE-930 - Astronautical Engineering Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to the student’s
Chair and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their
research. The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete
document. The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document
to the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must
receive approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance
forward.
AE-940 - Astronautical Engineering Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research.

The student will focus on the study of the latest Artificial Intelligence strategies, tactics,
and developments. The student will synthesize the growing effect of technology on
current operations, international relationships, and effects on the field, and where there
are areas of improvements or failings. The focus will be to start identifying areas for
research at a later stage and explore the background. Prerequisite: None. (6)
AIT-810 - Artificial Intelligence Research Methodologies
The student will evaluate and develop research methodologies and strategies suitable
for understanding Artificial Intelligence and address the data sources, information, and
intelligence to test a hypothesis or research question. It is expected the student will be
building upon AIT-800 in refining and developing their research task and plan. (6)
AIT-820 - Artificial Intelligence Future Demands
The student will research the future demands in the Artificial Intelligence industry and
how these influence specific research questions. Data collection and applications will
be central to evaluating the needs of Artificial Intelligence on the short, medium and
long term. (6)
AIT-830 - Strategies for Artificial Intelligence
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the Artificial Intelligence industry. Students will analyze
217 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

AIT-800 - Artificial Intelligence Research Background

the influences of technology, economics, international politics, and sustainability that
dictate planning based upon non-technical aspects. For example, how international
disputes affect key resources, costs, and schedules. (6)
AIT-840 - Artificial Intelligence Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives and
include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research milestones
according to the proposal and research plan. (6)
AIT-900 - Artificial Intelligence Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. (6)
AIT-910 - Artificial Intelligence Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 according to the approved proposal.
The student will also submit Chapters 1-3 to the Institutional Review Board (IRB) and
Academic Review Board (ARB). After receiving the necessary approvals, the student will
conduct data collection and analysis activities consistent with the research plan. (6)

The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
AIT-930 - Artificial Intelligence Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to the student’s
Chair and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their
research. The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete
document. The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document
to the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must
receive approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance
forward. (3)
AIT-940 - Artificial Intelligence Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)

218 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

AIT-920 - Artificial Intelligence Doctoral Writing III

AMM-700 - Fund of Graduate Research & Design
This course will introduce the fundamentals of graduate research and design. The
project will focus on graduate level writing, APA style, and the fundamentals of scientific
inquiry. The project will cover the areas of technology research, ethics of research, the
stages of the research process, conceptualization and operationalization of research
questions, data collection techniques, analytics, an introduction to qualitative and
quantitative methods and measurement, a discussion of program evaluation research,
and research proposal development. (6)
AMM-710 - Ethics & Phil of Research & Data Collect
This course will address the ethics of conducting scholarly research. The discussion
of research ethics will include, but not be limited to, informed consent, protecting
anonymity of participants, and ethical participant protocols. Discussions will address
the limits of researchers’ obligations, along with providing a detailed look at the process
of applying for Institutional Review Board approval. This project will provide students
with an overview of the range of data collection methods available to individuals
undertaking research and to enable the student to consider the implications, application
strengths and weaknesses of the various data collection methods. The module will also
provide insight into the ways that such methods may be applied effectively and ethically
in research. (6)

Under a Chair, a student will further research the future demands in the Aviation
Maintenance field and how these influence specific research questions. Data collection
and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Aviation Maintenance
research in the short, medium and long term. The literature review will be more specific
in focus and direction at this stage. The ARB will be completed at this stage. (6)
AMM-725 - Aviation Maintenance Research & Data Collect
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives and
include a timing plan. The student will then complete the research milestones according
to the proposal and research plan. The IRB will need to be completed by this stage. (6)
AMM-735 - Aviation Maintenance Thesis & Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Master of Research Review Board, the
student will prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research
and defend the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair,
Committee and Master of Research Review Board will confer to determine if the student
has provided a sufficient and necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
AVT-101 - Aviation History and Development
This course is an introduction to the history of aviation technology from its origins to the

219 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

AMM-715 - Aviation Maintenance Research Proposal

present day. It examines selected topics on flight within the Earth’s atmosphere from
a global perspective with emphasis on events in the United States. Overall, the course
stresses the history of flight within the broader context of culture, economics, politics,
society, technology, and international conflict through lecture, readings, video, writing
assignments, and discussions. (3-0-3)
AVT-141 - Private Pilot Ground School
Introduction to basic principles of flight (basic aerodynamics), aircraft systems,
performance, weight and balance, aviation physiology, federal air regulations, flight
publications, basic meteorology, navigation, and cross-country flight planning. Upon
completion of this course, students will be prepared to take the FAA Private Pilot
knowledge examination. (3-0-3)
AVT-142 - Private Pilot Flight - Airplane
Students must enroll in this course while pursuing a private pilot’s certificate from an
approved flight school. Course credits will be awarded upon receipt of a copy of the
student’s private pilot certificate. Prerequisite: AVT-141 (3-0-3)

This course provides a detailed introduction to the environmental factors that are
critical to safe flight operations. Includes the following: thermal patterns, horizontal
and vertical motion, moisture clouds, precipitation, air masses, fronts, cyclones,
thunderstorms and aviation hazards. Will also include meteorological flight planning,
use of weather information systems, and reports and charts used for aviation weather
reporting and forecasting. Prerequisite: AVT-141 (4-0-4)
AVT-201 - Air Traffic Control Systems

This course provides an introduction to Air Traffic Control (ATC), the history,
development, and structure of the National Airspace System (NAS). The student will
explore navigation aids, ATC radar systems, terminal and enroute traffic control, flight
service, weather facilities, airspace, and FAA regulations. Prerequisite: AVT-141 (3-0-3)
AVT-202 - Air Traffic Control Operations
This course provides the student with an analysis of Air Traffic Control (ATC) regulatory
flight publications including manuals, charts, advisory circulars and procedures. Topics
include the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations, aeronautical information
and agreements, Terminal Procedures (TERPS) publications and applicable FAA Orders.
Corequisite: AVT-221 (3-0-3)
AVT-241 - Instrument Pilot Ground School
An introduction to flight under IFR conditions. Course includes basic instrument flying,
flight instruments, IFR charts and approach plate, IFR regulations and procedures, ATC
220 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

AVT-143 - Aviation Weather Services

clearances and IFR flight planning. Completion of the course will prepare the student for
the Instrument Knowledge Exam. Prerequisite: AVT-142 (3-0-3)
AVT-242 - Instrument Pilot Flight - Airplane
Students must enroll in this course while pursuing the Instrument certificate at an
approved flight school. Credits will be awarded upon receipt of a copy of the student’s
instrument rating. Prerequisite: AVT-241 (3-0-3)
AVT-251 - Air Transportation
This course provides an overview of the development of air transportation facilities,
state and federal regulations, the Department of Transportation, the Federal Aviation
Administration, the National Transportation Safety Board, and organization of
commercial air transportation to include air carrier management, marketing, and pricing
procedures. (3-0-3)
AVT-253 - Airport Management
This course provides an introduction to the planning, development, management, and
operation of a modern airport including airport systems, federal and state regulations,
environmental policy, operational safety, maintenance, and public relations. (3-0-3)
AVT-254 - Airline Management

AVT-256 - Aviation Safety
This course will concentrate primarily on the major aspects of aviation safety and the
organizations and processes that govern commercial and general aviation safety in
the United States. This course will provide an introduction to aviation safety programs,
risk management, and the associated components of pilot psychology, physiology,
human factors, and accident review and investigation. It will also include an overview of
modern techniques used in accident investigation. (3-0-3)
AVT-301 - Certified Flight Instruction Theory - Airplane
This course provides the theory of flight and ground instruction, aircraft performance,
analysis of flight maneuvers, and other basic theory as needed by the airplane flight
instructor. Prerequisite: AVT 242 (3-0-3)
AVT-311 - Aircraft Systems & Components I - Intro
Introduction to basic aircraft systems found on modern single and multi-engine
reciprocating aircraft. Topics will include piston engines, electrical systems,
hydraulic and pneumatic systems, radios and instruments, propellers, pressurization,
maintenance requirements and documentation, and trouble shooting from the cockpit.

221 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

This course exposes the student to the management and organizational structure of
air carriers to include airline scheduling, fleet planning, airline economics and financing,
and air carrier labor relations. (3-0-3)

Prerequisite: AVT-141 (3-0-3)
AVT-313 - Aircraft Systems & Cmp II-Trb & Aerodynamics
This course is a continuation of the systems found on modern reciprocation aircraft and
introduces those of turbine-powered aircraft. Topics covered will include hydraulic and
pneumatic systems, landing gear, brakes, environmental control, ice and rain protection,
fire protection, aircraft turbine engines, and high-speed aerodynamics. High-speed
aerodynamics includes the study of forces and the resulting motion of objects through
the air to include compressibility effects, shock waves, and high-speed aerodynamics.
Prerequisite: AVT-311 (3-0-3)
AVT-325 - Crew Resource Management
This course will provide an in-depth study of Crew Resource Management (CRM),
which involves having a thorough understanding of crew communications, teamwork,
leadership, decision-making, and situational awareness. Included are CRM techniques
designed for pilots and cabin crew of multi-crew operations as well as dispatchers,
mechanics, and air traffic control personnel. (3-0-3)

Commercial Flight Maneuvers, Airplane Aerodynamics, Advanced Performance, Power
plants (including fuel injection and turbocharging), Environmental Control Systems and
Retractable Landing Gear Systems will be taught. Also, airports (marking and lighting)
will be reviewed. Advanced Weight and Balance, and Part 61, 91, 125, and 135 and NTSB
830 Commercial Pilot Regulations will build on the private pilot regulations learned
earlier. High Altitude Physiology, and High Performance and Turbine-Aircraft Flight
Operations will be emphasized. Prerequisite: AVT 242 (3-0-3)
AVT-342 - Commercial Pilot Flight-Airplane SE & ME

Students must enroll in this course while pursuing the multi-engine commercial
certificate at an approved flight school. Credits will be awarded upon completion of the
FAA Commercial Pilot Certificate and the Multi-Engine rating. Prerequisite: AVT-341 (3-03)
AVT-405 - Aviation Law
This course provides a detailed study of the regulations and procedures common to
the aviation industry as well as a survey of the legal environment and the standards of
conduct required of professional pilots. Case studies and discussion methods are used
to show application of these statutes. Included is a study of latest legislation passed by
the Congress and international conventions. Prerequisite: Senior standing (3-0-3)
AVT-413 - Electronic Flight Management Systems
This course introduces the student to the concepts and functions of the electronic flight
222 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

AVT-341 - Commercial Pilot Ground School

management system (FMS), a fundamental component of modern aircraft avionics.
Topics include flight plans, GPS, INS, navigation, control display units, electronic flight
instrument system, and navigation displays. Prerequisite: AVT-313 (3-0-3)
AVT-421 - Global Navigation and NAVAIDS
Advanced navigation systems include HSI, RMI, Loran, Doppler, VOR, NDB and GPS.
Will include navigation theory, in-flight emergencies, electronic instrumentation,
and advanced flight computing problems. Extensive use of in-class computer flight
simulation will be exercised. Provides the radio navigation skills necessary for the
instrument pilot. Prerequisite: AVT-241 (3-0-3)
AVT-457 - Aviation Senior Project I
Students/teams select a project area, develop an understanding of the project scope
that includes research and documentation of related work, prepare a feasibility
study, develop project requirements, propose solutions and multiple designs, analyze
proposed designs, select a final proposed design, and prepare and present a preliminary
design review (PDR). Students are expected to apply proper aviation concepts and
project management to their work. Additional components may be required in some
projects. Students/teams submit a final report at the end of the semester. Prerequisite:
Senior standing. (3-0-3)

This is the aviation capstone course designed to challenge students as they work
individually or in small teams on an aviation problem requiring technical expertise
and aviation acumen. Drawing upon the course in technical report writing, students
are required to submit a major report outlining and analyzing an aviation problem and
proposing solutions. *Note: Course must be completed with a grade of “C” or higher to
meet undergraduate graduation requirements. AVT- 457 should be taken immediately
before this course. Prerequisites: AVT-457 (3-0-3)
AVT-616 - Aviation Financial & Contract Management
This course is an introduction to financial and contract management for aviation
managers. The course will cover topics in financial management accounting, direct
and indirect costs, revenues, profits, financial position, financial reports, return
on investment, net present value, internal rate of return, and cash and funds flow
statements in the aviation industry. The course will cover the principles of contract
formation, contract financing, subcontracts, and negotiation techniques. Students will
present aviation case studies during the course. (3)
AVT-625 - Organizational Behavior in the Aviation Environment
Technology has created amazing new opportunities for aviation. Although the explosive
technology growth has increased productivity and advancement, it has also created
changes in worker requirements, employee expectations and workplace changes. This

223 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

AVT-458 - Aviation Senior Project II

course analyzes organizational behavior in an aviation environment. Cases are analyzed
to develop skills in applying theories to common aviation managerial problems in
technology driven organizations. (3)
AVT-627 - Impact of Emerging Technology on Aviation
This course will focus on emerging technologies that influence aviation leadership and
management. Students will learn leading edge skills to understand the technologies and
innovations that are increasingly changing the aviation landscape. The course will put
students at the forefront of new technology to produce value for their future business,
employers, and customers. (3)
AVT-631 - Aviation Personnel Management
This course delves into the challenges of personnel management in aviation
organizations. Topics include the environmental requirements for effective and
innovative efforts, direction and motivation, leadership behavior, recruitment
of technical staff, orientation and training programs, personnel placement and
reassignment, assignment of work, salary administration, personnel evaluation and
counseling, professional growth and promotion, technical obsolescence and retraining,
equal opportunity programs, employee grievances, and handling of conflict situations.
Students explore typical personnel management situations that arise in an aviation
organization. (3)

This course will prepare the student to contribute effectively in today’s technologyenabled aviation workplace by understanding how to leverage processes, systems,
and data to create business value. The course will examine aviation operations in
established companies and start-up firms. Students will explore the perspectives and
needs of both established and start-up organizations. (3)
AVT-646 - Aviation Project Management
This course provides an overview of the theory and practice of managing an aviation
project in an organizational setting. Students will gain a solid understanding and
foundation of managing each phase of the project life cycle, adhering to organizational
and cost constraints, setting goals for stakeholders, and utilizing best practices to
complete the project on time and within budget. Project management is examined in the
aviation sector. (3)
AVT-650 - Strategic Aviation Management
This course examines the objectives, elements and framework of analysis for strategic
aviation management. Case studies and aviation virtual simulations will be used
as the primary tool of learning and analysis. Students will focus on executive level
collaboration, synthesizing information, sound business judgment, aviation expertise
and proper communication. (3)

224 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

AVT-635 - Technology-Enabled Aviation Operations

AVT-671 - Airport Management
This course provides an in-depth focus on the management of domestic and
international airports. Airports possess unique challenges and operational activities that
are governed by national and international law. How all these separate entities interact,
co-operate and work efficiently is important to understand, manage and develop. The
constraints and external influences are dynamic and changing constantly. The course
will focus on these aspects, their importance and difficulties. Additionally, the long-term
investments and economics of managing airports will be examined for current aviation
facilities and new airports. (3)
AVT-674 - Airline Management
Commercial airline management is one of the most unique business sectors in the
world. Airlines can be large multi-national corporations financed by a government
for national prestige or low-cost carriers that operate to maximize all profits by
efficient operations. In this course, the different operational models are covered and
reviewed against national and international standards. The related topics of recruiting,
maintaining staff certifications, and dynamic operations will be addressed at all levels.
(3)

Aviation cybersecurity management is becoming one of the most important aspects
of aviation. Aircraft systems integrity, airport security, security of the passengers and
cargo are a few examples of where the reliance on computer networks is significant
and the consequences of a breach are great. Students will cover the needs and
developments of cybersecurity techniques to minimize or eliminate threats. The course
covers aviation cybersecurity management within the context of rapid technological
changes. (3)
AVT-700 - Aviation Research Project I
Students will begin a graduate level research project in the field of Aviation. The
research and thesis development are supervised by a faculty member. The student will
research and write the thesis in this course and prepare to defend the thesis in a viva
voce (i.e., oral) examination. This course is the second to last course in the program as
the student applies accumulated knowledge of program’s classes to this effort. (3)
AVT-701 - Aviation Research Project II
During this course, students will complete the graduate level research project in the
field of Aviation that was approved and developed in AVT-700. The research and thesis
development are supervised by a faculty member. The thesis must be defended by the
student in a viva voce (i.e., oral) examination during the course. This course is the last
course in the program. Prerequisite: AVT-700. (3)

225 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

AVT-686 - Aviation Cybersecurity Management

AVT-703 - Aviation Cybersecurity Research Project
Students will conduct a graduate level research project in the field of aviation
cybersecurity. The research and thesis development are supervised by a faculty
member. The student will research and write the thesis in this course and prepare to
defend the thesis in a viva voce (i.e., oral) examination. This course is the last course in
the program as the student applies accumulated knowledge of program’s classes to this
effort. Prerequisite: Should be taken in last semester. (3)
AVT-800 - Aeronautical Sci Research Background
The student will focus on the study of Aviation process and developments over
the previous decades and how the influences of war, demand and technology has
supported the systems and procedures we currently use. In particular, how the current
operations and global dictates have resulted in where the industry operates and where
there are areas of improvements or failings. The focus will be to start identifying areas
for research at a later stage and explore the background. (6)
AVT-810 - Aeronautical Sci Research Methodologies
The student will evaluate and develop research methodologies and strategies suitable
for aviation and address the data sources and information to test a hypothesis or
research question. It is expected the student will be building upon AVT-800 in refining
and developing their research task and plan. (6)

The student will research the future demands on a regional, national, and global level
and how these influence the specific research questions and demands. Data collection
and applications will be core to evaluating the needs of aviation on the short, medium,
and long term. (6)
AVT-830 - Strategies for Aeronautical Sci
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
preparation, protection, and resilience of Aviation. Students will be introduced to the
influences of economic and politics that dictate aviation planning based upon nontechnical aspects to requirements. For example, how noise pollution dictates design
and efficiency and even operational usage. (6)
AVT-840 - Aeronautical Sci Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives and a
timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research milestones according
to the proposal and research plan. (6)
AVT- 900 - Aeronautical Science Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
226 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

AVT-820 - Aeronautical Sci Future Demands

proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. (6)
AVT-910 - Aeronautical Science Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 according to the approved proposal.
The student will also submit Chapters 1-3 to the Institutional Review Board (IRB) and
Academic Review Board (ARB). After receiving the necessary approvals, the student will
conduct data collection and analysis activities consistent with the research plan. (6)
AVT-920 - Aeronautical Science Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
AVT-930 - Aeronautical Science Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to the student’s
Chair and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their
research. The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete
document. The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document
to the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must
receive approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance
forward. (6)

Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
BUS-101 - Introduction to Data Science
Fundamental coursework on the standards and practices for collecting, organizing,
managing, exploring, and using data. Topics include preparation, analysis, and
visualization of data and creating analysis tools for larger data sets. Co-requisite: MA112. (3-0-3)
BUS-114 - Advanced Excel
This course stresses the ten core areas of advanced Excel usage: advanced formula;
tables and formatting; conditional formatting; advanced charting; pivot tables and
pivot reporting; VBA and macros; using Excel productively; data tables, simulations and
solver; Excel integration with other tools; and optimizing Excel. Practice with data sets
will allow students to use Excel in realistic simulations. (3-0-3)

227 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

AVT-940 - Aeronautical Science Doctoral Defense

BUS 174 - Intro to Business & Management
This course presents a survey of the general business and management environment.
Topics include an introduction to the various forms of business, organizational
structure, and their legal implications. Modern management and supervision concepts,
history and development of theory and practice, the roles of managers, and the
relationship between manager and employee are examined. This is a seminar course
with emphasis on class discussion and collaborative learning. (3-0-3)
BUS-200 - Business Communications
This course includes preparation for various kinds of both written and oral business
communication. The course will develop and sharpen the critical thinking and writing
skills, including report/proposal preparation and presentation, needed in the workplace.
Strategies for effective communication will also be explored. Prerequisite: EN-101. (3-03)
BUS-202 - Introduction to Sports Management
This introduction to the professional area of sport management discusses
basic philosophy and principles of sport management at all levels. Management
encompasses the activities associated with administration, supervision, and leadership.
This course satisfies a general or social science elective. (3-0-3)

This course examines legal concepts that arise out of conducting business through
the Internet. This course examines a wide variety of concepts and issues that have a
significant influence on the use of the Internet for business or personal gain. In addition
to basic legal terms, topics such as how courts assert personal and subject matter
jurisdiction, the use of long-arm statutes, the state and federal court systems, patents,
copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and statutes that deal with hacking, on-line
privacy and the protection of data are introduced. International jurisdiction issues will
also be discussed. The class is structured as a seminar course with an emphasis on inclass discussion and collaborative learning. Prerequisite: BUS-174, EN-102. (3-0-3)
BUS-240 - Statistical Methods in Data Science
Statistical concepts and applications related to data science including advanced
exploratory data analysis, nonparametric inference and simulation for larger datasets,
logistic regression modeling, statistical programming, and basics of machine learning.
Prerequisite: BUS-101. (3-0-3)
BUS-245 - Writing & Communication in Data Science
This course emphasizes communication skills for professional situations, including
effective quantitative summary and public speaking. The course includes preparing and
producing technical documents for specific audiences as well as analyses for general
audiences. Prerequisite: EN-102. (3-0-3)

228 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

BUS-208 - E-Commerce and the Law

BUS-246 - Business Research Methods
Students will learn the elements of the research process. The course encourages
students to step outside the classroom and engage in research projects based on
real life case studies. Non-Business Analytics Business majors must take this course.
Prerequisites: MA-128. (3-0-3)
BUS-247 - Quantitative Methods for Business Analytics
A project-based course where students pursue an approved data-science based
research project. The course builds upon the skills acquired in BUS-101 and BUS-240.
The course includes topics in advanced data mining, data ethics, and reproducible
research. Business Analytics majors must take this course. Prerequisite: BUS-240. (3-03)
BUS-250 - Database for Managers
A course that introduces the student to the basic concepts, organization, and
implementation models of databases, with an emphasis on the relational model.
Projects include hands-on work with entity-relationship and relational models. (3-0-3)

This is an introductory accounting course that will provide students with a strong
basic knowledge of accounting terms, concepts, and procedures. Analyzing business
transactions as they relate to the General Ledger and the use of special journals will
be addressed as well as the various processes and procedures related to the full
accounting cycle. The accounting principles described are those endorsed by the
Financial Accounting Standards Board. (3-0-3)
BUS-271 - Financial Accounting II
This course continues the focus on accounting principles, theories, and applications
introduced in Financial Accounting I. It builds additional skills in ledger entry and
organization, payroll accounting, and the development of financial statements. The
foundation acquired in Accounting I is integral to exploring topics as accounting for
partnerships and corporations, promissory notes, and valuation of assets. Prerequisite:
BUS-270. (3-0-3)
BUS-275 - Human Resource Management
This course examines the role of the human resource professional as a strategic
partner in managing today’s organizations. Key functions such as recruitment, selection,
development, appraisal, retention, compensation, and labor relations are examined in
the context of government, private, and public sectors. Prerequisites: BUS-174, EN-102.
(3-0-3)
BUS-279 - Introduction to Leadership
This course overviews the disciplines and competencies associated with leadership in
229 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

BUS-270 - Financial Accounting I

the 21st Century. In particular, the study and application of skills, theories, and concepts
in a multicultural society will be examined. This is a seminar course with emphasis on
class discussion and collaborative learning. No prerequisites. (3-0-3)
BUS-280 - Macroeconomics
This course is an introduction to macroeconomic concepts and analysis. It deals with
the relationship between government, business, and the overall economy. The key areas
focus on gross domestic product, the public sector, unemployment, and aggregate
supply and demand. The global economy is covered with discussion of issues such as
international trade and protectionism. Prerequisite: EN-101. (3-0-3)
BUS-281 - Microeconomics
This course is an introduction to microeconomic concepts and analysis. The course
focuses on competitive market dynamics including individual and firm behavior through
the study of market structure and economic decisions regarding production, pricing,
and personnel. Labor markets and labor unions are addressed as well as regulatory and
distributional issues. Prerequisite: EN-101. (3-0-3)
BUS-282 – Economics for Management

BUS-283 - Managerial Accounting
This course focuses on budgeting and planning. Emphasis is on the use of accounting
information to plan and redirect allocations to support business decisions. Managerial
Accounting is designed to follow Principles of Accounting. The course outlines how
accountants create, organize, interpret, and communicate information that improves
internal processes and allows organizations to identify and leverage opportunities to
create value within the supply chain and with customers. Prerequisites: BUS-174, MA110, MA-111, or MA-112
BUS-284 - Data ID & Collection Strategies
This course introduces students to the location, collection, and classification of data
for business purposes. Sources, tools, processing, systems and legal parameters are
examined. Prerequisite: BUS-240. (3-0-3)
BUS-289 - Entrepreneurship & Small Business Management
This course provides an overview of the principles and processes of entrepreneurship
and small business management. Students learn to identify characteristics of
entrepreneurs, identify business innovations, conduct feasibility analyses, develop

230 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

This course is an Introduction to economic concepts and analysis. It deals with the
relationship between government, business, and the overall economy. The key areas
focus on gross domestic product, the public sector, unemployment, and aggregate
supply and demand. The global economy is covered with discussion of issues such as
international trade and protectionism. Prerequisites: BUS-174, EN-101.

formal business plans, and finance, organize, and operate a small business.
Prerequisites: BUS-174, EN-102. (3-0-3)
BUS-301 - Project Management
This course is an introduction to project management. It covers the origins, philosophy,
methodology, and involves actual applications and use of tools such as MS Project.
The System Development Cycle is used as a framework to discuss project management
in a variety of situations. Illustrative cases are used and project leadership and team
building are covered as integral aspects of good project management. Prerequisites:
BUS-174, EN-101. (3-0-3)
BUS-302 - Methods of IT Project Management
“Methods of IT Project Management focuses on IT project management and is built
around the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK). You will learn how IT
projects differ from other kinds of projects and how the methods and techniques of
project management must be modified/adapted for IT projects. In addition, you will
gain an increased understanding of what managers do (or should be doing) and why
managers ask you to do the things that they do. The course presents methods, tools,
and techniques that can be used to effectively manage IT projects, both large and small.
Prerequisite: BUS-301 or equivalent. (3-0-3)

“Project Management takes decision-making and a business-oriented approach to
the management of projects, which is reinforced throughout the course with current
examples of project management in action. Project management is central to
operations within the context of a variety of successful organizations, whether publicly
held, private, or not-for-profit. Prerequisite: BUS-301 or equivalent. (3-0-3)
BUS-310 - Data Mining for Effective Decision Making

This course applies analytics to create useful information that provides insights, fosters
inquiry, and supports effective decision-making and problem solving. The Students
learn and practice utilizing analytics as a tool for achieving a desired outcome. This
course provides a review of analytical methodologies and examines the importance of
understanding problems, setting objectives, critical thinking and interpreting results.
Problems will be addressed in a variety of disciplines. Prerequisite: BUS-284 and CS220. (3-0-3)
BUS-350 - Data Mining for Effective Decision Making
The main objective of this course is to teach how to solve modern business problems
using a spreadsheet application. Popular spreadsheet applications are examined.
Students will use the case study method to address analytical problems. Prerequisites:
MA-128, BUS-301 and BUS-384. (3-0-3)

231 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

BUS-303 - Project Management Competitive Advantage

BUS-358 - Internship
This course provides students with an alternate educational experience in industry and
government that complements and strengthens their classroom education. Internship
positions must be related to the students major and be creative and analytical in nature,
for a minimum of eight weeks. The intern is under the supervision or mentorship of an
experienced professional and faculty member. Prerequisites: junior or senior status. (30-3)
BUS-362 - Information Systems for Managers
Computer-based information systems and online information systems to increase
individual and organizational efficiency and productivity constitute the foundation
of this course. Topics include information systems for database management,
transaction processing, knowledge worker, office automation, management information,
decision support, and executive support. The course also includes system security,
troubleshooting, and disaster recovery, system upgrading, and client/server issues.
Prerequisites: BUS-174, EN-102. (3-0-3)
BUS-367 - Data-Driven Digital Marketing

BUS-372 - Financial Management
This course is designed to familiarize the student with the principles that guide a firm’s
financial resources management. The primary philosophy around which this course
is organized is wealth maximization and the decision criterion used to achieve such
a state. Topics such as capital management, fixed-asset investment, cost of capital,
capital structure, long-term finance, mergers, leasing, and multinational finance are
covered. In addition, accounting terminology and concepts relevant to financial analysis
and decision making will be presented. Prerequisites: BUS-270 and MA-111 or MA-112.
(3-0-3)
BUS-376 - Marketing Principles
The role of marketing and the strategies used by marketing managers to solve problems
is the content of this course. Emphasis is placed on the relationship among consumers,
business, and government in regard to product, promotion, pricing, and distribution
strategies. Industry standards and ethical practice are focal points of the course.
Prerequisites: BUS-174, EN-102. (3-0-3)
BUS-377 - Special Topics in Marketing

232 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

This course exposes students to core marketing techniques and their application in
digital marketing. Students will learn how to design, run, evaluate and improve digital
marketing campaigns to meet specific business objectives like customer acquisition
and increased brand awareness. This course will cover basic marketing and statistical
concepts and introduce different online marketing tools like email marketing, SEO/SEM
and social media analytics. Prerequisite: CS-220. (3-0-3)

This is an advanced course in selected issues in the theory and application of
marketing. Actual topics and cases will be chosen by the instructor and may vary from
term to term. Prerequisites: BUS-200, BUS-375, BUS-386 and BUS-378 or BUS-208. (3-03)
BUS-378 - Legal Environment of Business
This course is an Introduction to economic concepts and analysis. It deals with the
relationship between government, business, and the overall economy. The key areas
focus on gross domestic product, the public sector, unemployment, and aggregate
supply and demand. The global economy is covered with discussion of issues such as
international trade and protectionism. Prerequisites: BUS-174, EN-102.
BUS-379 - Integrated Marketing Communications
This course examines the development of marketing strategies and creative
campaigns utilizing multiple marketing disciplines (paid advertising, public relations
and promotions) and media (print, broadcast, online and social). Emphasis is placed
on the coordinated impact of these communication tools in reaching target audiences.
Prerequisite: BUS-376. (3-0-3)

This course stresses the decisions that managers make in increasing productivity in
a world economy. Productions and operations management examines the processes
by which goods and services are produced. Strategies, techniques and problems in
forecasting, statistical quality control, total quality management, inventory management,
scheduling, maintenance and reliability, product, process, technology, location, layout,
and purchasing are the core topics of this course. Prerequisites: MA-128 and BUS-386.
(3-0-3)
BUS-385 - Federal Acquisitions & Contracting
This course covers the fundamentals of Federal acquisitions and contracting and will
provide a comprehensive understanding of the acquisition environment. Students
will develop professional skills for making business decisions and advising other
acquisition team members to successfully meet customers’ needs. Participation in
small group simulation exercises will prepare students to provide contracting support
within the overarching business relationships of government and industry. Prerequisites:
BUS-301 and BUS-384 or equivalent. (3-0-3)
BUS-386 - Organizational Theory & Behavior
This course integrates the study of management principles and practices with the
study of human behavior within organizations. The focus will be upon translation
of management and organizational behavior theory to practices that result in
organizational effectiveness, efficiency, and human resource development. To
understand management and organizational behavior, concepts associated with

233 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

BUS-384 - Productions & Operations Management.

continuous improvement in individual and group processes will be discussed. Specific
attention will be given to organizational behaviors, diversity in organization, attitudes
and job satisfaction, personality and values, perceptions and individual decision making,
motivation concepts, foundations of group behavior, communication, leadership, power
and politics, and conflict. Prerequisite: BUS-275. (3-0-3)
BUS-387 - Mergers and Acquisitions
This course surveys the drivers of success in mergers and acquisitions (M&A) and
develops your skills in the design and evaluation of these transactions. The M&A
transactions will cover the foundation for a wide range of mergers and acquisition fields
including corporate development, investment banking, consulting, and advising senior
management. Prerequisite: BUS- 301 and BUS-384 or equivalent. (3-0-3)
BUS-388 - Software Acquisitions
This course covers the acquisition of open systems and commercial off-the-shelf
(COTS) products, an increasingly vital element of corporate and government software
development. Properly managed software acquisition offers potential for significant
time and cost savings over a system’s lifetime. The transition from proprietary, custombuilt systems to systems based on standards and commercial products is not easy,
however. Managers and their staff must understand the risks and opportunities
associated with this acquisition approach. Prerequisites: BUS- 301 and BUS-384 or
equivalent. (3-0-3)

This course examines the efficient flow of materials, products and information within
and among organizations. Logistics management examines a wide variety of activities
that have a significant influence on customer service, including inventory control,
transportation, warehousing, facility location analysis, packaging, materials handling,
parts and service support and product returns. Supply chain management examines
the integration of business processes across organizations, from material sources and
suppliers through manufacturing and processing, to the final customer. Prerequisites:
BUS-386 and MA-128. (3-0-3)
BUS-390 - eMarketing
This class will prepare students for the dynamic and evolving field of Internet
Marketing. Through classroom and hands-on activities, students will gain experience
with e-marketing approaches including websites, search engine marketing, online
advertising, email marketing, various forms of social media, and mobile commerce.
The emphasis is on the practical application of e-marketing technologies, including
promotional methods, web analytics tools, and customer relationship management
(CRM) processes used for consumer, business, and institutional markets. Students will
study both current and emerging online marketing methods, along with their benefits
and limitations. The objective is for students to develop an understanding of Internet
marketing both in terms of strategy and tactics. Prerequisite: BUS-174 and BUS-376.
(3-0-3)
234 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

BUS-389 - Logistics & Supply Chain Management

BUS-391 - eCommerce
This course examines the opportunities and challenges faced in an increasingly
digital world. More and more product information and selling strategies are linked to
the worldwide web. The course is for those students who wish to learn the principles
and processes of electronic commerce. The course provides an overview of web
promotional strategies, technology and infrastructure concerns, security, supply chain
management, and back-office processes. Students will study topics such as: website
development and promotion, online marketing and advertising, outsourcing or inhouse development decisions, back office operations and information technology, and
sourcing and cost analysis of key services and technologies. Prerequisite: BUS-174 and
BUS-376. (3-0-3)
BUS-392 - Retail Management
This course examines retailing theory and research to understand the way retailing
works. Methods, strategies, resources and techniques required for retail management
are stressed. Both brick and mortar and online retailing are covered. Prerequisite: BUS386. (3-0-3)
BUS-393 - Consumer Analysis
This course examines the identification and evaluation of distinguishing customer
characteristics so as to better segment them in the marketplace and target marketing
efforts to them. Prerequisite: BUS-174. (3-0-3)

This course provides an overview of the disciplines of governing data by examining the
basic concepts, principles and practices of a data governance program and techniques
used to measure success. The essential components of an enterprise-wide program are
covered and a roadmap to execute a successful data governance program is outlined.
The course makes data governance real by illustrating the concepts, principles, and
practices using case studies. Prerequisite: BUS-367. (3-0-3)
BUS-400 - Research Methods
Introduction to business research methods. Through the coursework students will
learn elements of the research process including problem definition, literature review,
and hypothesis development. Types of research design and data collection methods
such as sampling strategies, data analysis and interpretation, qualitative research
approaches, ethical issues in research, and the reporting of research results will also be
included. The course encourages students to step outside the classroom and engage in
research projects based on the real life case studies. Prerequisites: MA-128 and EN102. (3-0-3)
BUS-410 - Strategic Management
Designed to provide students with a general overview of systematic and continuous

235 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

BUS-396 - Data Governance and Stewardship

planning processes used by management to gain strategic and competitive advantage.
The students are exposed to, and practice, the complex interrelationships between
strategy, structure, culture, and management. Strategic and tactical strategies are
explored using case studies, projects and discussions. Students develop and assess
the role of management in strategy formulation, implementation and evaluation.
Prerequisites: EN-102, BUS-174.
BUS-443 - Marketing Analytics: Decision Making in Information Age
This course demonstrates the benefits of using a systematic and analytical approach
to marketing decision-making, and helps students develop their skills and confidence
in doing such analyses. Analytical approaches covered enable (a) the identification
of alternative marketing options and actions, (b) the calibration of opportunity costs
associated with each option, and (c) the choice of one or more options with the greatest
likelihood of achieving the business goals. With the knowledge gained here, students
are better able to make the case for marketing expenditures (based on ROI) that
companies are increasingly asking of their executives. Prerequisite: BUS-310 (3-0-3)

Drawing upon previous management and business courses, this course studies the
nature and scope of international trade and investment, international institutions,
the international monetary system and exchange markets, and the cultural factor
affecting international business operations and their influence on the principal business
functions. The effects of the revolution in electronic technologies on global business
are also examined. Case study analysis and a variety of current media are used in this
course. Prerequisites: EN-102, BUS-174. (3-0-3)
BUS-457 - Senior Design Project I
Students/teams select a project area, develop an understanding of the project scope
that includes research and documentation of related work, prepare a feasibility
study, develop project requirements, propose solutions and multiple designs, analyze
proposed designs, and select a final proposed design, and prepare and present a
preliminary design review (PDR). Students are expected to apply proper business and/or
systems concepts and project management to their work. Additional components may
be required in some projects. Students/teams submit a final report at the end of the
semester. Pre-requisite: Senior standing. (3-0-3)
BUS-458 - Senior Design Project II
This is the TBM/MCIT capstone course designed to challenge students as they work
individually or in small teams on a real-world business/industry problem requiring
technical expertise and management acumen. Drawing upon the course in technical
report writing, students are required to submit a major report outlining and analyzing the
problem and proposing management solutions. *Note: Course must be completed with
a grade of “C” or higher to meet undergraduate graduation requirements. Prerequisites:
BUS-457. (3-0-3)
236 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

BUS-454 - International Business

BUS-460 - Special Topics in Business
Research into business subjects. Student primarily works in a guided study format with
a mentor. Prerequisite: EN-102. (3-0-3)
CH-120 - Chemistry
This course teaches metric system and significant figures, stoichiometry, fundamental
concepts of atomic structure and its relationship to the periodic table and electron
configuration. Bonds and electronegativity, gases, oxidation states and redox, solutions,
acids and bases, changes of state, thermodynamics, and chemical kinetics and
equilibrium are also included. Prerequisite: MA-112 or MA-114 (2-2-3)
CM-120 - Intro to Construction Management
This course will introduce the basic history and management concepts of the
construction industry to students with the expectation that upon completion students
will have an overview of the industry. Career choices, industry firms, and key players in
the Construction Management process will be explored. Prerequisite: None. (3-0-3)
CM-125 - Construction Graphing & Plan Reading
This is an introductory course designed to prepare students to identify, read and
interpret construction drawings. The course will be delivered from an applied
perspective with an emphasis on understanding the processes involved in construction
and interpreting them from drawings. Pre-requisite: CM-120 or FM-120 (3-0-3)

Vertical construction emphasizing comprehensive analysis of materials, design
and specifications, installation methods, testing and inspection, and appropriate
construction methodology for application. Prerequisite: CM-120 or FM-120 and MA-114
(3-0-3)
CM-230 - Estimating I
Introduction to the classification of work from plans and specifications. Covers
discussion of the estimating function and review and applications of material quantity
survey techniques used in estimating costs of construction projects. Includes types
of approximate and precise methods of estimating and their uses, and computer
applications. Prerequisite: CM-125 (3-0-3)
CM-250 - Legal Issues in Construction
An overview of standard construction contracts traditionally used between contractors,
owners, design professionals and subcontractors from a general contractor’s point of
view. Prerequisites: CM-220 (3-0-3)

237 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CM-220 - Construction Methods and Materials

CM-260 - Statics and Strengths of Materials
This algebra-based course is the study of forces acting upon structural elements.
Analytic and graphic methods are used to illustrate resultants and reactions,
equilibrium, centroids and moments of inertia applied to static structures. Analysis
includes stress, strain, axial loading, bending, and deflection of beams. Prerequisite:
MA-112 and PH-201. (3-0-3)
CM-270 - Safety Management
Covers OSHA liability, general safety, hazard communication, fire, material handling,
tools, welding, electricity, scaffolding, fall protection, cranes, heavy equipment,
excavation, concrete, ladders and stairways, confined space entry, personal protective
equipment, and health hazards. Prerequisite: CM-120 or FM-120 (3-0-3)
CM-301 - Construction Project Management
This course covers construction procedures and administration processes using the
latest construction management technologies and methods to explain typical project
management functions and documentation. Prerequisites: CM-250, CM-270, CM-330
and CM-350. (3-0-3)

This course covers pricing and bidding of construction work, including cost factors,
labor and equipment, productivity factors, prices databases, job direct and indirect
costs, methods of estimating time, materials, equipment, subcontractors’ work, general
expenses and profit, bid preparations and submission, and computer applications.
Prerequisite: CM-230 (3-0-3)
CM-350 - Construction Planning & Scheduling
This course focuses on construction scheduling software with plans and specifications
that will be used in planning a construction project from start to finish. Prerequisite: CM230 (3-0-3)
CM-375 - Mechanical & Electrical Construction
An introduction to the basics of mechanical, electrical, plumbing and fire protection
systems (MEP) in construction. This includes installation of systems and the necessary
resources. Prerequisite: CM-220 (3-0-3)
CM-380 - Environmental Systems
This course is a comprehensive overview of environmental impact of common
construction processes; and environmental/occupational hazards and liability
associated with those processes. Prerequisites: CH-120, CM-120, CM-250, and PH-201

238 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CM-330 - Estimating II

CM-450 - Management of Field Operations
This course is intended to equip students with knowledge and skills required to
successfully manage and support construction field operations. Knowledge areas
include contract administration, project engineering, site superintendence, and other
topics critical to field operations. Prerequisites: CM-250, CM-270, CM-330 and CM-350.
(3-0-3)
CM-457 - Internship in Construction Management
Successful completion of an approved internship is a graduation requirement. The
internship program complements classroom learning by exposing students to various
construction management functions on real-life projects. Prerequisite: Sophomore
Status. (3-0-3)
CM-458 - Senior Project
The student proposes, designs, and completes a construction management and critical
infrastructure capstone project. Students write a report according to specifications and
deliver an oral presentation for review. Prerequisite: CM-375, CM-301 and CM-450. (3-03)

The course will focus on emerging issues related to cybersecurity in the construction
industry. Students will research current issues and attacks on construction companies
and their systems and what was the company’s response. The course will allow
students to create policies and plans to produce value for their future business,
employers, and customers. Prerequisite: None (3)
CM-602 - Construction Industry Software
The course focuses on construction industry software that is used to support the
industry. Software for project management, estimating, BIM, scheduling, documentation,
communication, as related to representation, processing, and communication of
construction information will be discussed. This course develops an understanding of
the variety of software used as it relates to the tools necessary to be successful for a
general contractor. Prerequisite: None (3)
CM-700 - Construction Cybersecurity Research Project
Students will begin a graduate level research project in the field of Construction
Cybersecurity. The research and thesis development are supervised by a faculty
member. The student will research and write the thesis in this course and prepare to
defend the thesis in a viva voce (i.e., oral) examination. This course is the second to
last course in the program as the student applies accumulated knowledge of program’s
classes to this effort. This course should be completed in the student’s last term.
CM-800 - Construction Science Research Background

239 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CM-600 - Cybersecurity Impacts on Construction Industry

The student will focus on the study of the latest Construction Science processes
and developments. The student will synthesize the growing effect of technology on
current operations, international relationships and effects on the field, and where there
are areas of improvements or failings. The focus will be to start identifying areas for
research at a later stage and explore the background. (6)
CM-810 - Construction Science Research Methodologies
The student will evaluate and develop research methodologies and strategies suitable
for Construction Science and address the data sources and information to test a
hypothesis or research question. It is expected the student will be building upon CM-800
in refining and developing their research task and plan. (6)
CM-820 - Construction Science Future Demands
The student will research the future demands Construction Science and how these
influence specific research questions. Data collection and applications will be central to
evaluating the needs of Construction Science on the short, medium and long term. (6)
CM-830 - Strategies for Construction Science

CM840 - Construction Science Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives and a
timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research milestones according
to the proposal and research plan. (6)
CM-900 - Construction Science Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. (6)
CM-910 - Construction Science Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 according to the approved proposal.
The student will also submit Chapters 1-3 to the Institutional Review Board (IRB) and
Academic Review Board (ARB). After receiving the necessary approvals, the student will
conduct data collection and analysis activities consistent with the research plan. (6)
CM-920 - Construction Science Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete

240 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of Construction Science. Students will analyze the influences
of economics, international politics, and sustainability that dictate planning based upon
non-technical aspects. For example, how international disputes effect key resources,
costs, and construction schedules. (6)

and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
CM-930 - Construction Science Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to the student’s
Chair and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their
research. The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete
document. The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document
to the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must
receive approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance
forward. (6)
CM-940 - Construction Science Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)

This course will introduce the fundamentals of graduate research and design. The
project will focus on graduate level writing, APA style, and the fundamentals of scientific
inquiry. The project will cover the areas of technology research, ethics of research, the
stages of the research process, conceptualization and operationalization of research
questions, data collection techniques, analytics, an introduction to qualitative and
quantitative methods and measurement, a discussion of program evaluation research,
and research proposal development. (6)
CPY-710 - Ethics & Phil of Research & Data Collect
This course will address the ethics of conducting scholarly research. The discussion
of research ethics will include, but not be limited to, informed consent, protecting
anonymity of participants, and ethical participant protocols. Discussions will address
the limits of researchers’ obligations, along with providing a detailed look at the process
of applying for Institutional Review Board approval. This project will provide students
with an overview of the range of data collection methods available to individuals
undertaking research and to enable the student to consider the implications, application
strengths and weaknesses of the various data collection methods. The module will also
provide insight into the ways that such methods may be applied effectively and ethically
in research. (6)
CPY-715 - Cyberpsychology Research Proposal
Under a Chair, a student will further research the future demands in the
Cyberpsychology field and how these influence specific research questions. Data

241 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CPY-700 - Fund of Graduate Research & Design

collection and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Cyberpsychology
research on the short, medium and long term. The literature review will be more specific
in focus and direction at this stage. The ARB will be completed at this stage. (6)
CPY-725 - Cyberpsychology Research & Data Collect
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives and
include a timing plan. The student will then complete the research milestones according
to the proposal and research plan. The IRB will need to be completed by this stage. (6)
CPY-735 - Cyberpsychology Thesis & Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Master of Research Review Board, the
student will prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research
and defend the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair,
Committee and Master of Research Review Board will confer to determine if the student
has provided a sufficient and necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
CPY-800 - Cyberpsychology Research Background

CPY-810 - Cyberpsychology Research Methodologies
Under a Chair and committee, a student will continue evaluating and develop research
methodologies and strategies suitable for understanding Cyberpsychology and address
the data sources, information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis or research question.
It is expected the student will be building upon CPY-800 in refining and developing their
research task and plan. (6)
CPY-820 - Cyberpsychology Future Demands
Under a Chair and committee, a student will further research the future demands in
the Cyberpsychology field and how these influence specific research questions. Data
collection and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Cyberpsychology
on the short, medium and long term. The literature review will be more specific in focus
and direction at this stage. (6)
CPY-830 - Strategies for Cyberpsychology
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to the student’s
Chair and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their
research. The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete
document. The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document

242 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

The student will focus on the study of the latest Cyberpsychology strategies, tactics
and developments. The student will synthesize the growing effect of Cyberpsychology
on current operations, international relationships and effects on the field, and identify
areas for improvements or failings. The faculty will directly support and mentor the
exploration phase of the planning. (6)

to the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must
receive approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance
forward. (6)
CPY-840 - Cyberpsychology Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives
and include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research
milestones according to the proposal and research plan. The IRB and ARB will need to
be completed by this stage. (6)
CPY-900 - Cyberpsychology Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. The material for these
chapters will have been established in the CPY 800 series. Any disagreement within the
committee will be reviewed by the Dean of Doctoral Programs. (6)
CPY-910 - Cyberpsychology Doctoral Writing II

CPY-920 - Cyberpsychology Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
CPY-930 - Cyberpsychology Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to their Chair
and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their research.
The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete document.
The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document to the
University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must receive
approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance forward. (6)
CPY-940 - Cyberpsychology Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sutffcient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)

243 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 (methodology chapter that is robust
and identifies all implications) according to the approved proposal. After receiving the
necessary approvals, the student will conduct data collection and analysis activities
consistent with the research plan. (6)

CRI-210 - Critical Infrastructure I
This course will introduce participants to the key terms, policy, guidance, and
preparedness efforts required to safeguard the Nation’s critical infrastructure. Students
will learn relevant policy and guidance, discuss the risk management framework,
describe Federal critical infrastructure security and resilience and information sharing
programs, and relate critical infrastructure programs to individual actions. Primary
focus will be on incorporating Critical Infrastructure protection in to construction
of facilities in six of the sixteen critical infrastructure sectors: chemical facilities,
commercial (e.g., retail, entertainment, lodging), communications facilities, critical
manufacturing facilities, dams, and energy facilities. Students will complete hands-on
Critical Infrastructure projects related to the construction of those types of facilities.
Prerequisite: None. (3-0-3)
CRI-211 - Critical Infrastructure II

CRI-212 - Critical Infrastructure III
This course will explore how threats, vulnerabilities, and consequences determine
risk as it relates to the protection of Critical Infrastructure. Primary focus will be on
incorporating Critical Infrastructure protection into construction of facilities in five of
the sixteen critical infrastructure sectors: food and agriculture facilities, Information
Technology facilities, nuclear facilities, transportation facilities, and water/wastewater
facilities. Students will complete hands-on Critical Infrastructure projects related to the
construction, hardening, and recovery of those types of facilities. Prerequisite: CRI-211
(3-0-3)
CRI-501 - Critical Infrastructure Intro
The security and resilience of the 16 sectors of Critical Infrastructure is essential to the
nation’s security, public health and safety, economic vitality, and way of life. This course
will present an overview of the National Infrastructure Protection Plan -- the unifying
structure for the integration of existing and future critical infrastructure security and
resilience efforts into a single national program. Students will learn the responsibilities
of the federal government, state, local authorities, and private industry. The course
will provide the skills and tools to effectively achieve results for critical infrastructure

244 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

The national and economic security of the United States depends on the reliable
functioning of critical infrastructure. This course examines collaboration efforts among
the entities responsible for constructing physical and cybersecurity protection as well
as the development of integrated risk management strategies for our Nation’s critical
infrastructure. Primary focus will be on incorporating Critical Infrastructure protection
into construction and renovation of facilities in five of the sixteen critical infrastructure
sectors: Defense industrial facilities, emergency services facilities, financial services
facilities, government facilities, and public healthcare facilities. Students will complete
hands-on Critical Infrastructure projects related to the construction and renovation of
those types of facilities. Prerequisite: CRI-210. (3-0-3)

security and resilience through successful critical infrastructure partnership and
collaboration. Relevant policies and guidance, risk management framework, federal
Critical Infrastructure security and resilience, and information sharing programs will be
covered in depth. (3)
CRI-510 - CI 1: Perf & Risk Anl of Inf Systems
The national and economic security of the United States depends on the reliable
functioning of Critical Infrastructure. This course presents a comprehensive systems
approach to infrastructure asset management across areas of public and private
infrastructure. Topics include the framework of integrated asset management
illustrated in transportation, water and wastewater systems, the economic evaluation
of infrastructure options, and using life cycle cost analysis (LCCA) and cost-benefit
analysis (CBA). Prerequisite: CRI-501. (3)
CRI-520 - CI 2: Security Management of Critical Infrastructure
This course will explore how threats, vulnerabilities, and consequences determine risk
and the security management of Critical Infrastructure. Primary focus will be on the
areas of vulnerability assessment and security management of critical infrastructure
systems, including approaches to vulnerability analysis and critical infrastructure
protection strategies. Critical infrastructure sectors include water supply/environmental,
transportation, power and fuel systems, SCADA systems, cyber-infrastructure,
telecommunications and public health. Prerequisite: CRI-510. (3)

The Capstone Project is the culminating effort of the student’s entire learning
experience. The student will complete a comprehensive exam that provides significant
evidence of experience in Critical Infrastructure studies, master’s level thesis and
research project (with submission of a final report, approval by a thesis committee,
and an oral defense of the research work), or a comprehensive Critical Infrastructure
project. Students will work with designated faculty to formulate, develop, and complete
the project, thesis, or exam. The completion of the Capstone Course is designed to
document significant evidence that all Program Outcomes have been met and provides
the student evidence of experience to show to current and prospective employers.
The Capstone Course must be taken at the end of the student’s degree program.
Prerequisite: All Master of Science in Critical Infrastructure degree program curriculum
below the 700 level. (3)
CRI-800 - Critical Infrastructure Nervous System
The student will focus on the study of Critical Infrastructure within the context of
technology and related political, social and cultural aspects of security. The focus
is on the systems and facilities which have become the nervous system of modern
cities and nations and whose disruption can trigger dramatic crises. Not only external
threats (such as natural disasters, terrorist attacks and cyberattacks) are threatening
the 16 sectors of Critical Infrastructure, but also the growing complexity and
245 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CRI-710 - Critical Infrastructure Capstone

interconnectedness of the systems. The student will analyze, evaluate, and integrate
alternate, divergent, and contradictory perspectives and solutions to protect Critical
Infrastructure. The student will also explore the interdependence of multiple spatial and
temporal relationships that exist within and between sectors. (6)
CRI-810 – Critical Infrastructure Construction and Function
The student will delve deep into the construction and function of Critical Infrastructure.
After advanced study on construction techniques and functional requirements in each
Critical Infrastructure sector, the student will research how the construction of facilities
in one of the 16 sectors meets the functional needs of its customers while exposing its
dependencies and vulnerabilities. Among the deliverables, the student will produce an
abstract and notable paper showing significant research within their chosen sector. (6)
CRI-820 - Threats to Critical Infrastructure
The student will analyze and evaluate in depth the full array of threats to Critical
Infrastructure. All forms of threats, from natural disasters to terrorist attacks to
cyberattacks, will be examined. The student will also conduct advanced study and
research on the threats to one of the 16 sectors of Critical Infrastructure. Among the
deliverables, the student will produce an abstract and notable paper showing significant
research on the threats to their chosen sector. (6)

The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
preparation, protection, and resilience of Critical Infrastructure within all 16 sectors. The
student will draw data supported conclusions and develop a comprehensive strategy
for one of the 16 sectors of Critical Infrastructure. The strategy will be informed by the
construction, function, dependencies and vulnerabilities that exist. (6)
CRI-850 - CI Path Forward
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives and a
timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research milestones according
to the proposal and research plan. (6)
CRI-900 - CI Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. (6)
CRI-910 - CI Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 according to the approved proposal.
The student will also submit Chapters 1-3 to the Institutional Review Board (IRB) and
Academic Review Board (ARB). After receiving the necessary approvals, the student will

246 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CRI-830 - Strategies for CI Protect & Resilience

conduct data collection and analysis activities consistent with the research plan. (6)
CRI-920 - CI Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
CRI-930 - CI Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to the student’s
Chair and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their
research. The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete
document. The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document
to the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must
receive approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance
forward. (6)
CRI-940 - CI Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)

The course will cover basic concepts and elements of computer programming using
Python. Topics include variables, constants, operators, expressions, statements,
branching, loops, and functions. Additionally, Python specific data structures, built-in
functions, library modules and working with external files will be applied in developing
working code. (3-0-3)
CS-130 - Intro to Programming Using Java
Introduces students to the discipline, methodologies, and techniques of software
development. The emphasis is on developing essential programming skills, an
understanding of object-oriented design and good software engineering practices using
the Java programming language. Program constructs include selection, looping, arrays,
graphical output of data, the use of the standard Java class library, and construction
of simple user-defined classes. Programming projects are assigned as part of the
homework requirements. Prerequisite: MA-110 or MA-112 or MA-114. Corequisite CS120 for BS in Computer Science majors only. (3-2-3)
CS-150 - Programming in C
This introductory course in programming will enable students to understand how
computers translate basic human instructions into machine executable applications.

247 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CS-120 - Intro to Programming Using Python

The language of choice for this course is C. The C syntax that will be covered includes
functions; variables and memory allocations including pointer notation; conditional
statements and looping. Students will also learn binary to hexadecimal and decimal
conversions along with basic computer architecture. Memory management, data input
output and file manipulations will be among some other topics discussed and applied
during this course. Prerequisite: MA-111 or MA-112 and CS-120 or placement test.
Formerly titled Introduction to Programming Using C. (3-2-3)
CS-200 - Programming in C++
Students learn how to program in C++ using an object oriented approach. Design of
classes and objects, inheritance and polymorphism, use of pointers and data structured
based projects are also covered nin this course. Prerequisite CS-130 or CS-150. (2-2-3)
CS-220 - Database Management
An overview of database systems, with an emphasis on relational databases.
Terminology, basic analysis and design using Entity-Relationship diagrams and
relational schemas. Database implementation, queries and updates in a modern
relational database management system. An overview of database administration,
transactions and concurrency. Data warehouses. Projects, which are assigned as
homework, are implemented in Oracle. Prerequisite: CS-120 or CS-130 or CS-150. You
may take this course and CS-130 concurrently. (3-0-3)

This course provides a deeper look into the Java language with a special emphasis on
object oriented design. Topics include multidimensional arrays, inheritance, interfaces,
polymorphism, graphical user interfaces, exception handling, I/O, multithreading and
Java Database Connectivity (JDBC). Programming projects are assigned as homework.
Prerequisite: CS-130 Corequisite: CS-220. Offered spring semester only. (3-0-3)
CS-230 - Data Structures
Advance pointers and dynamic memory usage. Concepts of object-oriented design
and programming. Includes classes, friend functions, templates, operator overloading,
polymorphism, inheritance, exception handling, containers, iterators and the standard
template library. Applications involve the use of simple data structures such as stacks,
queues, linked lists and binary trees. Recursion, searching and sorting algorithms. The
above concepts are implemented through a series of hands-on programming projects,
all of which are completed as part of the homework requirements. Prerequisite: CS-225
or CS-200. Corequisite: MA-124. (3-0-3)
CS-240 - Introduction to Data Mining
This course will introduce basic concepts of data mining including data exploration,
preparation, supervised and unsupervised learning algorithms, model evaluation and
deployment. Students will learn to utilize one or more tools used in data mining to

248 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CS-225 - Intermediate Java Programming

apply their learned data mining techniques to such problems as predictive modeling.
Prerequisite: CS-120 or CT-206. (3-0-3)
CS-250 - Introduction to Network Programming Using C
An introductory network programming course using the C programming language.
Students will be provided an overview of the principles of computer networks with a
detailed look at the OSI reference model and the TCP/IP stack. The emphasis is on
understanding UNIX inter-process communication and developing network programs
using connectionless and connection-oriented sockets. Extensive programming
assignments will include the development of client/server and peer-to-peer network
applications. Prerequisites: CS-230. (2-2-3)
CS-300 - Secure Coding
This course introduces the secure coding process including designing secure code,
writing code that can withstand attacks, and security testing and auditing techniques
to detect secure coding weaknesses. The course focuses on the security issues a
programmer faces including, but not limited to, common code security weaknesses and
modern security threats. The course explores core secure coding principles, strategies,
coding techniques, and tools that aid programmers in developing more resilient and
robust code. Students will develop and analyze C language code that demonstrates
mastery of these secure coding principles. The course will also rely on industry
standards and best practices such as SEI-CERT coding standards and OWASP top 10
web application security risks. Prerequisite: CS-250 (3-0-3)

Writing applications for mobile devices using the Android operating system.
Installing and using the Android SDK. Creating GUI layouts, menus and dialog boxes.
Graphics and event handling. Interfacing with built-in GPS, accelerometer, audio and
video. User and file input and output. Web interfaces and sockets. Writing native
applications. Debugging native applications from a host. Preparing an application for
publication. High-level programming will be performed using Java and XML. Native
programming will be performed in C/C++. Programming in ARM-7 assembly language
will be introduced. Prerequisites: CS-225 or CS-230. Some Unix/Linux experience is
recommended. (3-0-3)
CS-310 - Computer Algorithms
This course covers mathematical fundamentals of algorithms and algorithmic
techniques. Running time analysis of an algorithm, searching, sorting, and other
techniques associated with retrieving information are covered. Advanced Data
structures such as Binary Search Trees, Heaps, and graph algorithms are used. Dynamic
programming (Knapsack, Floyd, DNA Algorithms), and greedy algorithms (Coins,
Scheduling, Huffman encoding, etc.) are used. Course requires written programming
assignments. Prerequisites: CS-130 and MA-124. Offered spring semester only. (3-0-3)

249 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CS-305 - Android Application Development

CS-316 - Intelligent Systems
Fundamental techniques and concepts of intelligent systems: tree searching techniques
including recursive searches, minimax algorithms, heuristics, alpha beta pruning. Lisp
and Prolog programming languages. Genetic and a priori algorithms. Homework and
programming assignments. Prerequisites: CS-230. Offered spring semester only. (3-0-3)
CS-320 - Database Administration
This course covers the tasks performed by a database administrator. Topics include
database architecture, capacity and performance requirements, database creation, user
management, transaction management, backup and recovery, security, performance
tuning and other administrative functions. Students will work with a modern relational
database management system. Prerequisite: CS-220 and CT-152 (3-0-3)
CS-330 - iPhone App Development
Introduction to objective C, the programming language used for iPhone app
development. Overview of the xcode development environment, including debugging
tools, versioning tools, object library, object attributes tools. Object oriented
programming using Objective C. Model-View-Controller architecture in xcode. Graphical
User Interface library and components. File system on the iphone; SqlLite and the
iphone. Students learn how to make a complete iphone app with significant functionality
and industry-standard user interface from scratch. Security issues with iphone software
development. Prerequisite: CS-150 and CS-230 (3-0-3)

Students learn how to build a game using the Unity game engine. Students learn
how to use 2D and 3D graphics, sound files, and user driven programming to build a
game using a game engine and a physics engine. Students learn how to use the Unity
development environment, design a user interface, make scenes, retain persistent data,
create and manage animation, collision detection, level management, use of game
characters. Students learn how to create and code an end-to-end design of a playable
game. Prerequisite: CS-230 and (CS-225 or CS-305 or CS-330). (3-0-3)
CS-341 - 3-D Asset Creation

Students learn how to create 2D and 3D graphics and sound files for use in animation
and game design. Prerequisites: CS-150 or CS-130. (2-0-2)
CS-350 - Data Visualization
This course will introduce best practices and industry standards for data visualization.
The students will learn topics such as effective graphical representation of big data,
unbiased data representation, exploratory data analysis, and interactive and sharable
visualization. Prerequisite: CS-220 (3-0-3)

250 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CS-340 - Game Programming Using 3D Graphics

CS-351 - Assembly Language Programming
This course introduces the student to assembly language, specifically which is used
with the Intel 80x86 computer architecture. Topics include data representation,
branching and looping, procedures, string operation, bit manipulation and macros.
Secure coding techniques will be taught by exploring integer overflow and buffer
overflow attacks. By learning how to write in assembly language, the student will
better understand how programs are executed in a computer and how to optimize
performance of programs written in high-level languages, such as C++. The student will
be assigned programming projects as homework. Prerequisite: CS-130 or CS-150 (3-0-3)
CS-356 - Dynamic Web Page Development
This course teaches the student how to generate dynamic web pages using data from
a database. The course begins with an overview of the C# programming language and
object-orientation. Using ASP.NET, this course explores the processing of web forms
and controls, state management, validation and error handling, SQL database access
and secure web site coding. Programming projects, including a group project, are
assigned as part of the homework requirements. Prerequisites: CS-220 and CS-225 or
CS-230 and CS-200. (3-0-3)

In this course, students will be introduced to a variety of basic principles, and
techniques involved in carrying out data mining on textual datasets or textual attributes.
Topics include document representation, tokenization, parsing, text categorization,
text clustering, topic modeling, and sentiment analysis. Concepts of Natural Language
Processing (NLP) and Information Retrieval (IR) relevant to text mining will also be
covered. Prerequisite: CS-240 (3-0-3)
CS-370 - Computer Vision
This course provides an introduction to computer vision. The topics will cover basics
of image processing, segmentation, edge/line detection and object recognition. The
students will also learn applications of these techniques to various application domains
which can include some of the following: surveillance, traffic and road recognition,
medical imaging, affective computing, visual tracking, and activity monitoring.
Prerequisite: CS-120 or CT-206 or CS-150 (3-0-3)
CS-400 - Special Topics in Computer Science
Applications of computer science principles or research into computer science
subjects. Student primarily works in a guided study format with a mentor. Permission
required from the instructor and academic dean. This course may be repeated with
different projects. (1-4)
CS-405 - Intro to Software Design with UML
Undergraduate version of CS-505. Object Oriented principals and concepts, classes,

251 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CS-360 - Text Mining & Natural Language Processing

objects and interfaces; as well as inheritance, encapsulation, polymorphism and
aggregation; Students will explore the Unified Process and Object Oriented software
life cycle. CASE tools and iterative and incremental software development approaches
are also covered. Advantages of Object Oriented design patterns are demonstrated.
Prerequisite: CS-225 or CS-230 or CS-200. (3-0-3)
CS-406 - Requirements and Resource Analysis
Requirements analysis is crucial to avoid failure of a system or project. The
requirements should be well documented, measurable, verifiable, plausible to fulfill, easy
to keep track of and precise. Students will learn to identify stakeholders and elucidate
needed information from them to formulate software requirement specification
agreements, as well as examine the resources and skill sets needed to support
the requirements. Among the strategies studied will be: goal modeling, software
prototyping, and case development. Prerequisite: CS-225 or CS-230 or CS-200
CS-407 - Database Systems Implementation
This is an undergraduate version of the graduate database course CS-507. Emphasis
on DBMS architecture and implementation issues such as storage structures,
multidimensional index structures, query optimization, concurrency control and
recovery, distributed processing, database security, and parallel database systems.
Prerequisite: CS-220 or equivalent. (3-0-3)

This course will help students understand the design and architecture of networks and
network services that enable the delivery of business-grade cloud services. Students
will understand how virtualized data-center infrastructure lays the groundwork for
cloud-based services, automated self-service portals, how to classify cloud services
and deployment models, and understand the actors in the cloud ecosystem. Students
will review the elements, requirements, challenges, and opportunities associated
with network services in the cloud, optimize data centers via network segmentation,
virtualization-aware networks, virtual network services, service overlays, and
systematically secure cloud services. Students will learn about the crucial role
of organizations such as Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program
(FedRAMP), National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Cloud Security
Alliance (CSA), and the International Standards Organization (ISO) in creating standards.
Students will be challenged with cutting-edge hands-on labs from leading cloud vendors
and a major cloud project. Students will also learn about containerization and micro
services. This course is appropriate for Computer Science, Engineering and Cyber
Security majors. May be cross-listed with CS-713. (3-0-3)
CS-418 - Operating Systems
Principles underlying computer operating systems are presented from a computer
designer’s perspective. Concepts explained include process concurrency,
synchronization, resource management, input/output scheduling, job and process
252 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CS-412 - Design of Cloud Networks & Services

scheduling, scheduling policies, deadlock, semaphore, consumer/producer relationship,
storage management (real storage management policies in a multiprogramming
environment), virtual memory management (segmentation and paging), secure memory
management, access control lists and kernal protection. An overview of contemporary
operating systems with these principles. Students program in a high-level language.
Projects are assigned as part of the homework requirements. Prerequisites: CS-150, CT152, CS-230 and senior status. (3-0-3)
CS-430 - Game Programming on iPhone Platform
Students learn how to develop a game on the iPhone/iPad portable. Students learn
the xcode development environment and use the Model-View-Controller architecture.
Students will learn animation of objects, control of characters, collision avoidance
and tracking the state of a game. Real world projects will be assigned as part of
requirements. Prerequisite: CS-230. (3-0-3)
CS-431 - Graphics & Game Programming
Students learn how to develop and build a game using an industry-standard game
engine such as Unity. Students learn how to use 2D and 3D graphics, sound files, and
user driven programming to build a 3D game. Students learn how to design and build a
scene, manage game characters, manage game levels, manage and store game data.
Prerequisite: CS-230 and PH-201 or PH-261. (2-2-3)

Discussion of some basic types of computer graphic devices. Graphics and text modes,
point plotting and line drawing, area filling image array plotting, mathematics and
generation off two and three-dimensional translations. Rotations, scaling, reflections,
orthogonal and perspective transformations. Projects are assigned as part of the
homework requirements. Prerequisite: MA-330 and either CS-230 or CS-225. Offered on
demand. (3-0-3)
CS-440 - Advanced Machine Learning
This course will provide coverage of advanced machine learning algorithms and their
applications. Topics include supervised and semi-supervised learning, neural networks,
deep learning, reinforcement learning and the applications of advanced machine
learning techniques to image, text and stream processing. Prerequisite: CS-240 or CS360 (3-0-3)
CS-452 - Agile Methods for Software Engineering
Modern alternatives to traditional software engineering project management which
promote collaboration between self-organizing/cross-functional teams, adaptive
planning, evolutionary development, early delivery, and continuous improvement.
Students will explore several popular agile processes and frameworks which may
include some of the following, amongst others: Adaptive Software Development, Agile

253 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CS-432 - Computer Graphics

Unified Process, Crystal Clear Methods, Extreme programming, Lean, Scrum. Benefits
and pitfalls of this approach as compared to more traditional models will be discussed.
Prerequisite: CS-225 or CS-230 or CS-200
CS-457 - Senior Design Project I
Students/teams select a project, develop an understanding of the project scope that
includes research and documentation of related work, prepare a feasibility study,
develop project requirements (constraints) and engineering, software, and/or security
specifications, propose solutions and multiple designs, analyze proposed designs,
select a final proposed design, and prepare and present a preliminary design review
(PDR). Students are expected to apply proper systems engineering and project
management to their work. Additional components may be required in some projects.
Students/teams submit a final report at the end of the semester. Pre-requisite: Senior
standing. (3-0-3)
CS-458 - Senior Design Project II

CS-501 - Introduction to Python Programming
The Python programming course will assist students with their understanding of the
application, programming, and analytical use of Python as a means to making intelligent
decisions based on the results of pulling and parsing through big data. Python is
typically used for sorting and analyzing large data files and evaluating online sites to
illustrate the larger issue of any type of research project or study. The fast pace of never
ending digitalized data and emerging technology research makes Python programming
language the ideal resource for collecting and presenting such vast amounts of data in
a sensible and easy to understand format. (3)
CS-502 - Predictive Analytics
In this course students will learn the data mining and data science methodologies and
technologies needed to implement a predictive analytics solution in a given problem
domain. The course will emphasize supervised learning techniques, but will also
introduce and overview machine learning concepts in general. Students will learn the
hands-on techniques to implement data preparation, model building, model evaluation
and model deployment, using the leading industry language Python. Students will
demonstrate an ability to apply predictive analytics techniques to a given problem.
Students should be familiar with a high-level programming language, preferably Python.
(3)
254 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Students/teams build and test their selected designs (completed in CS-457). Each
student team delivers a tested prototype and defends its project in front of a panel of
experts. Students/teams submit a final report that includes description of the design,
realization, and test processes as well as test results, discussion, and conclusion.
Failure to deliver a completed design and a working prototype that meets engineering,
software, and/or security specifications by the end of the semester may result in failing
the course. *Note: Course must be completed with a grade of “C” or higher to meet
undergraduate graduation requirements. Prerequisite: CS-457 (3-0-3)

CS-504 - Theory of Computation
An investigation into the fundamental ideas and models underlying computing.
Automata languages, determinism, Chomsky hierarchy, computability, Turing machines,
Church’s Thesis, complexity, NP-completeness, intractability. (Offered as a full semester
course.) (3)
CS-505 - Intro to Software Design with UML
Object Oriented principals and concepts, such as classes, objects and interfaces;
as well as inheritance, encapsulation, polymorphism and aggregation; etc. Students
will explore the Unified Process and Object-Oriented software life cycle. CASE tools
and iterative and incremental software development approaches are also covered.
Advantages of Object-Oriented design patterns are demonstrated. (3)
CS-506 - Requirements and Resource Analysis

CS-507 - Database Systems Implementation
The course introduces DBMS (Database Management System) architecture and
implementation issues such as storage structures, multidimensional index structures,
concurrent access, data warehousing, and business intelligence. NoSQL concepts,
including MongoDB are also introduced. (3)
CS-510 - Algorithms
Mathematical fundamentals of algorithms and algorithmic techniques. Running Time
Analysis of an algorithm. Searching, Sorting, and other techniques associated with
retrieving information. Advanced Data structures such as Binary Search Trees and
Heaps. Graph algorithms. Dynamic Programming (Knapsack, Floyd, DNA Algorithms).
Greedy algorithms (Coins, Scheduling, Huffman encoding). Course requires written
programming assignments. (3)
CS-511 - Statistical Methods in Data Science
This course introduces numerical methods and statistics as a discipline of analyzing
data i.e. estimating errors, modeling relationships between two or more variables,
interpretation of the results. Concepts of machine learning and big data analytics will be
introduced. Students will use industry standard tools like R and SAS. (3)
255 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Requirements analysis is crucial to avoid failure of a system or project. The
requirements should be well documented, measurable, verifiable, plausible to fulfill, easy
to keep track of and precise. Students will learn to identify stakeholders and elucidate
needed information from them to formulate software requirement specification
agreements. They will learn how to perform goal modeling, software prototyping,
and use case development, so that they can identify and document Architectural
Requirements, Structural Requirements, Behavioral Requirements, Functional
Requirements, Performance Requirements, and Derived Requirements, amongst others.
They will also examine the resources and skill sets needed to support the requirements.
(3)

CS-512 - Computer Language Design
Using parsers and code generation techniques to fashion new mini-languages that can
be used to creatively modify the interface between a user and the computer. Topics
include language design; grammars; regular expression grammars; parsers and parser
construction; parsing expressions; tokenizing; assemblers; engines vs. interpreters;
logic, query and imperative language parsers and assemblers. (3)
CS-513 - Gaming Theory-Real-Time 3D Graphics
The growing importance of virtual realities in training, scientific modeling, and
communication comes on the heels of increasing processor capabilities, new
innovations in hardware, increasingly sophisticated programming languages, and
advanced math-based modeling techniques. Real-time 3D graphics are at the leading
edge of these developments. Topics include mathematical foundations and modeling
techniques, mapping, anti-aliasing, real-time rendering, Binary Space Partition Trees,
object control issues. Uses C++ and the OpenGL graphics interface. (Offered as a full
semester course.) (3)

This course covers the concepts and methodologies required for software testing and
deployment. Topics include unit testing, module testing, subsystem and system level
testing, coverage criteria, and manual and automated techniques for test validation
and data generation. Formal testing processes and standards, black box vs. white box
testing, functional testing, and testability analysis are also covered. Students will also
learn to use profilers, practice advanced features of popular debugging tools, learn to
use version control software such as SVN and GIT, and build tools like Ant, Maven and
Gradle. (3)
CS-552 - Agile Methods
Agile is an alternative to the traditional waterfall approach discussed in other software
engineering courses. Its key principals include: active user involvement in the design
process, empowering the development team to make decisions, allowing requirements
to evolve while keeping the timescale fixed, iterating with small/incremental releases,
testing early and often, and high degree of collaboration between all stakeholders.
Students will explore several popular agile processes and frameworks which may
include some of the following, amongst others: Adaptive Software Development, Agile
Unified Process, Crystal Clear Methods, Extreme programming, Lean, Scrum. Benefits
and pitfalls of this approach as compared to more traditional models will be discussed.
(3)
CS-575 - Secure Coding
This course introduces the secure coding process including designing secure code,
writing code that can withstand attacks, and security testing and auditing techniques
to detect secure coding weaknesses. The course focuses on the security issues a

256 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CS-551 - Software Testing

programmer faces including, but not limited to, common code security weaknesses and
modern security threats. The course explores core secure coding principles, strategies,
coding techniques, and tools that aid programmers in developing more resilient and
robust code. Students will develop and analyze C language code that demonstrates
mastery of these secure coding principles. The course will also rely on industry
standards and best practices such as SEI-CERT coding standards and OWASP top 10
web application security risks. Prerequisite: Permission for graduate students. (3)
CS-604 - Accelerated and Parallel Computing
Many of the key emerging application areas of computing such as artificial intelligence,
machine learning, blockchain applications and cryptographic systems are dependent on
accelerated and highly parallelized computing systems and architectures. Current and
future application advances will require such technologies as graphics processing units
(GPUs) and other parallel chip and system architectures. In this course students will
learn the underlying concepts and architectures of parallel and accelerated computing
systems and gain exposure to specific development technologies such as CUDA
programming for GPUs.Students should be familiar with a high-level programming
language such as C and basic computer architecture. (3)

This course covers various business and technical aspects of intelligent automation,
including its motivations, benefits, detriments, tools, and techniques. The mixture
of robotic process automation (RPA), machine learning engineering, and low-code
techniques shows students how to maximize automation while minimizing complexity.
Students will demonstrate the ability to evaluate and apply intelligent automation
techniques to one or more given problems. Prerequisites: CS-502 (3)
CS-610 - Machine Learning & Neural Networks
Basics of neural network computing, important neural network models such as
Adaline, Perceptron, back propagation, self-organizing maps, Hopfield nets. Analysis
and limitations of neural networks; programming neural networks using OOP. CS-511
recommended. (3)
CS-620 - Operating Principles for Information Assurance
This course is an overview of the UNIX operating system. The content will include shell
programming, process management, processor management, storage management,
scheduling algorithms, resource protection and system programming. The course will
include programming projects focused on Information Assurance problem solving
utilizing the C programming language primarily. Students are expected to be familiar
with virtual machines, the UNIX command line and a basic programming language.
Basic knowledge of C programming and UNIX helpful. (3) Note: This course is not an
approved elective for the MS in Computer Science program.

257 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CS-605 - Intelligent Automation

CS-701 - Artificial Intelligence
The artificial intelligence revival of the late 1980s has produced many new and
innovative approaches to the creation of intelligent systems. Such systems permeate
today’s computer environment supporting everything from computer games to
autonomous robotic systems and intelligent agents. The focus of this course will vary
over time. Topics include knowledge representation and rule-based systems, fuzzy-logic
systems, learning systems such as artificial neural networks and genetic algorithms,
genetic programming and evolutionary computing, hybrid intelligent systems, and
intelligent agents. (3)
CS-705 - Multithreaded & Distributed Program
Modern applications such as GUI interfaces use multithreaded programming to
achieve responsiveness and to make efficient use of computer resources. In addition,
the Internet has made distributed programming an integral part of almost every
computing system. In today’s world programmers and computer professionals must
understand the principles underlying both these paradigms. Topics include concepts
and applications of multithreaded and distributed programs. Process interaction using
shared variables and message passing; systematic development of correct programs;
general problem solving techniques; scientific computing; distributed systems. (3)

This advanced course will equip the student with the necessary skills to solve complex
problems and design solutions using Big Data. The student will be able to gain an
understanding of how to design databases to manage large volumes of data, and
how that data can be analyzed and translated into meaningful results. The student
will be introduced to the field of Analytics, gain an understanding of Enterprise Data
Warehousing models, be introduced to Data Mining techniques and tools used
for mining the data warehouse, and build specific Data Marts. The student will be
introduced to predictive analysis, and will be expected to develop models to extract
data, perform trend analysis, establish patterns, and make projections. CS-511
recommended. (3)
CS-711 - Computer Vision and Deep Learning
This course will cover modern developments in computer vision and image processing,
particularly the use of machine learning and deep learning technologies to achieve
solutions to computer vision problems. The course covers relevant deep learning
approaches including convolutional neural networks and other deep learning
approaches, and students will learn how to apply these technologies to a given problem
in the computer vision domain. Prerequisite: CS-502 (3)
CS-712 - Research Methods
This is part one of a two course sequence in research and writing. In part one, students
work to identify a research topic and, as initial research begins, they investigate

258 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CS-710 - Big Data

the requirements for maintaining a research journal, writing a research paper, and
presenting a research paper. (3)
CS-713 - Design of Cloud Networks & Services
This course will help students understand the design and architecture of networks and
network services that enable the delivery of business-grade cloud services. Students
will understand how virtualized data-center infrastructure lays the groundwork for
cloud-based services, automated self-service portals, how to classify cloud services
and deployment models, and understand the actors in the cloud ecosystem. Students
will review the elements, requirements, challenges, and opportunities associated
with network services in the cloud, optimize data centers via network segmentation,
virtualization-aware networks, virtual network services, and service overlays, and
systematically secure cloud services. Students will learn about the crucial role
of organizations such as Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program
(FedRAMP), National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Cloud Security
Alliance (CSA), and the International Standards Organization (ISO) in creating standards.
Students will be challenged with cutting-edge hands-on labs from leading cloud vendors
and a major cloud project. Students will also learn about containerization and micro
services. This course is appropriate for Computer Science, Engineering and Cyber
Security majors. Also cross-listed as CS-412. (3)

This course is in graduate seminar format. Students integrate prior course work and
personal experiences into researching an approved topic to produce a project-based
paper. Prerequisite: completion of at least 18 credit hours of graduate coursework. (3)
CS-716 - Advanced Artificial Intelligence
This course covers selected deep learning and deep neural network technologies,
drawn from such topics as convolutional neural networks, recurrent neural networks
and generative models. The course will combine coverage of relevant technologies with
consideration of emerging innovations and developments in this field. Prerequisite: CS502 (3)
CS-800 - Computer Science Research Background
The student will focus on the study of the latest Computer Science strategies, tactics
and developments. The student will synthesize the growing effect of Computer Science
on current operations, international relationships and effects on the field, and where
there are areas of improvements or failings. The focus will be to start identifying areas
for research at a later stage and explore the background of Computer Science. The
faculty will directly support and mentor the exploration phase of the planning. (6)
CS-810 - Computer Science Research Methods
Under a Chair and committee, a student will continue evaluating and develop research

259 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CS-714 - Computer Science Seminar

methodologies and strategies suitable for understanding Computer Science and
address the data sources, information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis or research
question. It is expected the student will be building upon CS-800 in refining and
developing their research task and plan. (6)
CS-820 - Computer Science Future Demands
Under a Chair and committee, a student will research the future demands in the
Computer Science industry and how these influence specific research questions. Data
collection and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Computer Science
on the short, medium and long term. The literature review will be more specific in focus
and direction at this stage. (6)
CS-830 - Strategies for Computer Science
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the Computer Science industry under the direction of their
Chair/committee. (6)
CS-840 - Computer Science Research Proposal

CS-900 - Computer Science Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. Any disagreement within
the committee will be reviewed by the Dean of Doctoral Programs. (6)
CS-910 - Computer Science Doctoral Writing II

The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 (methodology chapter that is robust
and identifies all implications) according to the approved proposal. After receiving the
necessary approvals, the student will conduct data collection and analysis activities
consistent with the research plan. (6)
CS-920 - Computer Science Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)

260 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives
and include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research
milestones according to the proposal and research plan. The IRB and ARB will need to
be completed at this stage. (6)

CS-930 - Computer Science Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to their Chair
and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their research.
The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete document.
The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document to the
University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must receive
approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance forward. (6)
CS-940 - Computer Science Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
CSH-410 - Honors Seminar in Neural Networks
Basics of neural network computing, important neural network models such as Adaline,
Perceptron, back propagation, self-organizing maps, Hopfield nets. Analysis and
limitations of neural networks; programming neural networks using OOP. Prerequisites:
MA-261. CS-130 or CS-225 with grade of B or better; Junior or Senior status; Good
programming skills, knowledge of matrices and some calculus. (3-0-3)

The student will focus on the study of the latest Cybersecurity Leadership strategies,
tactics and developments. The student will synthesize the growing effect of technology
on current operations, international relationships and effects on the field, and where
there are areas of improvements or failings. The focus will be to start identifying areas
for research at a later stage and explore the background. The faculty will directly
support and mentor the exploration phase of the planning. (6)
CSL-810 - Cybersecurity Leadership Research Methodologies
Under a Chair/committee a student will continue evaluating and develop research
methodologies and strategies suitable for understanding Cybersecurity Leadership and
address the data sources, information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis or research
question. It is expected the student will be building upon CSL-800 in refining and
developing their research task and plan. (6)
CSL-820 - Cybersecurity Leadership Future Demands
Led still by a Chair/committee, a student will research the future demands in the
Cybersecurity Leadership industry and how these influence specific research questions.
Data collection and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Cybersecurity
Leadership on the short, medium and long term. The literature review will be more
specific in focus and direction at this stage. (6)

261 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CSL-800 - Cybersecurity Leadership Research Background

CSL-830 - Strategies for Cybersecurity Leadership
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the Cybersecurity Leadership industry under the direction of
their Chair/committee. (6)
CSL-840 - Cybersecurity Leadership Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives
and include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research
milestones according to the proposal and research plan. The IRB and ARB will need to
be completed at this stage. (6)
CSL-900 - Cybersecurity Leadership Doctoral Writing I
The student will finalize the research justification and theory supporting this research in
line with the Chair and committee expectations. This approval of the progress is needed
to start the next phase of the dissertation. (6)
CSL-910 - Cybersecurity Leadership Doctoral Writing II
The student will develop and justify the research methodology to be used for the
research. After receiving the necessary approvals, the student will conduct data
collection and analysis activities consistent with the research plan. (6)

The student will compose and complete data collection. The student will provide
a complete and substantive presentation of the research results to the Chair and
Committee who must review and approve for the student to advance. (6)
CSL-930 - Cybersecurity Leadership Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to their Chair
and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their research.
The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete document.
The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document to the
University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must receive
approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance forward. (6)
CSL-940 - Cybersecurity Leadership Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)

262 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CSL-920 - Cybersecurity Leadership Doctoral Writing III

CSP-101 - Introduction to Engineering Methods I
Students are introduced to MATLAB. Using MATLAB to do calculations, solving systems
of equations. Using data for data analysis statistics, graphing with applications in
engineering. Special focus on trig and advanced trig functions, precalculus. Prerequisite
placement exam. (2-2-3)
CSP-102 - Introduction to Engineering Methods II
Students are introduced to MATLAB. Using MATLAB to do calculations, solving systems
of equations. Using data for data analysis statistics, graphing with applications in
engineering. Introduction to C++, classes and objects, CGI programming, Graphics and
GUI’s. Prerequisite placement exam. (2-2-3)
CSQ-800 - Quantum Computing Research Background
A research Chair will be assigned in the planning and development stage of the
research. . The student will synthesize the growing effect of technology on current
operations, international relationships and effects on the field, and where there are
areas of improvements or failings. The focus will be to start identifying areas for
research at a later stage and explore the background. (6)

The student will continue to evaluate and develop research methodologies and
strategies suitable for understanding Quantum Computing and address the data
sources, information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis or research question. It is
expected the student will be building upon CSQ-800 in refining and developing their
research task and plan. (6)
CSQ-820 - Quantum Computing Future Demands
The student will define the research and future demands in the Quantum Computing
industry and how these influence specific research questions. Data collection and
applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Quantum Computing on the short,
medium and long term. The student’s Chair will be guiding and supporting at all stages.
Working with the Chair they will complete an Academic Review Board document for
submitting to the approval stage. (6)
CSQ-830 - Strategies for Quantum Computing
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the Quantum Computing industry. Students will analyze
the influences of technology, economics, international politics, and sustainability that
dictate planning based upon non-technical aspects. For example, how international
disputes affect key resources, costs, and schedules. (6)
CSQ-840 - Quantum Computing Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
263 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CSQ-810 - Quantum Computing Research Methodolgies

planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives and
include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research milestones
according to the proposal and research plan. (6)
CSQ-900 - Quantum Comp. Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. (6)
CSQ-910 - Quantum Comp. Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 according to the approved proposal.
The student will also submit Chapters 1-3 to the Institutional Review Board (IRB) and
Academic Review Board (ARB). After receiving the necessary approvals, the student will
conduct data collection and analysis activities consistent with the research plan. (6)
CSQ-920 - Quantum Comp. Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)

The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to the student’s
Chair and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their
research. The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete
document. The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document
to the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must
receive approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance
forward. (6)
CSQ-940 - Quantum Computing Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
CT-102 - Introduction to Internet Applications
Introduces students to dynamic HTML Web pages, designed using tables, style sheets,
cascading style sheets (CSS), images, and dynamic images, with emphasis on page
layout, navigation bars and forms. Scripting languages are used to enhance Web
page features. Graphic, video and audio file standards, such as GIF, TIF, JPEG, WAV
and MIDI are discussed. SGML and XML are defined, and role of XML in enabling the
communication of data between disparate applications is discussed. Students are

264 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CSQ-930 - Quantum Comp. Doctoral Writing IV

required to complete assignments as part of the homework requirements. (3-0-3)
CT-152 - Introduction to UNIX
Unix file and operating system. Understanding multi-user and multitasking concepts.
Editors, X-windows, Awk, email, Internet commands, shell commands and shell scripts.
Projects, which provide practical experience, are completed as part of the homework
requirements. Corequisite: CS-120. (3-0-3)
CT-201 - Multimedia Applications
Use online and resident window tools to create, edit and enhance text, audio, and video
for multimedia applications, including multimedia Web pages and presentations. Study
the philosophy, aesthetics and theory behind the layout, construction and display of
multimedia material. Flash projects that include drawing, painting tools, color animation,
buttons and ActionScript are completed as part of the homework requirements.
Prerequisite: CT-102 or equivalent. (3-0-3)

Introduces students to the use of scripting and the scripting languages of Perl and
Python. The class will cover the use of scripting to solve short problems, automate
routine tasks, integrate across pieces of software, and prototype code ideas. The
merits of code-complete design versus on-the-fly coding as well as coding and code
documentation styles will be discussed. Tasks involving input/out, regular expressions,
and file operations are included. Students are expected to fully script solutions for realworld tasks assigned as part of the course. Prerequisites: CS-120 or CS-130 or CS-150.
(3-0-3)
CT-240 - Internetworking w/ Routers/Switches
Configuring routers and switches to build multiprotocol inter-networks such as RIP,
EIGRP, OSP and BGP. VLAN and VLAN trunking are also included. In addition, Point
to point protocols, encapsulation and VPN will be part of the hands-on labs. Security
topics that include the implementation of firewalls and mitigating threats via various
authentication technics will be part of the lab work. Prerequisites: NT-150 or professor
approval. (2-2-3)
CT-376 - Javascript
This course introduces the student to client-side web programming. Students learn
javascript. Topics include programming fundamentals using javascript, functions,
event handlers, how to create and use javascript libraries. Labs include how to use
the prototype and scriptaculous libraries for visual effects. Use of google maps from
a programmer’s perspective. Debugging of javascript code. Other topics include CSS
style sheets, XML,. JSON and AJAX. Programming projects are assigned as part of the
homework requirements. Prerequisite: CS-130. (2-2-3)

265 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CT-206 - Scripting Languages

CT-406 - Web Programming Languages
This course will explore how to make a dynamic website using Enterprise Java
frameworks, which may include: Java Servlets, Java Server Pages, Java Server Faces,
Web Services, Java Persistence API, among others. Students will use the Model-ViewController design pattern to produce N-tier applications. These applications will be
build on top of a modern Web Server and Relational Database Management System.
Prerequisites: CS-220 and CS-225 or CS-200 or CS-230. (3-0-3)
CT-451 - Special Topics
Students research current trends in telecommunications and emerging technologies.
Oral presentation required. Prerequisite: Senior status. (3-0-3)
CTC-200 - Construction IT & Cybersecurity, Issues
An overview of issues in construction information technology departments effecting
both the home office and field office locations and cybersecurity issues effecting
construction companies. Prerequisite: CM-120 and IAE-201. (3-0-3)
CTC-220 - Building Information Modeling and Graphic Software

CTC-240 - Estimating Software
Construction cost estimating software is computer software designed for contractors
to estimate construction costs for a specific project. A cost estimator will typically
use estimating software to estimate their bid price for a project, which will ultimately
become part of a resulting construction contract. Prerequisite: CM-220. (3-0-3)
CTC-260 - Scheduling Software
Scheduling in project management is the listing of activities, deliverables, and
milestones within a project. A schedule also usually includes the planned start
and finish date, duration, and resources assigned to each activity. Effective project
scheduling is a critical component of successful time management. Prerequisite: CM220. (3-0-3)
CTC-280 - Construction Project Management Software
Construction project management software is a tool used by professionals to
simplify construction management processes. It is used to streamline day to day
tasks to improve the delivery of projects, which ultimately impacts the bottom line of
construction companies. Prerequisite: CM-250. (3-0-3)

266 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Building Information Modeling (BIM) is an intelligent 3D model-based process that gives
architecture, engineering, and construction (AEC) professionals the insight and tools
to more efficiently plan, design, construct and manage buildings and infrastructure. An
introduction to construction graphics, sketching, 3D CADD systems. Prerequisite: CM125. (3-0-3)

CTR-101 - Nature of Conflict
This course examines armed conflict as a transformational force in world history. The
course covers the causes of armed conflict and the violent use of power as well as the
technological, social, and political outcomes. Students will evaluate the origins of armed
conflict from key points in early civilization up to the present. The course will cover the
role of terrorism and asymmetric warfare in armed conflict. Prerequisites: None. (3-0-3)
CTR-102 - Terrorism
This course will introduce the student to the history of terrorism up to the present day.
Students will examine the causes of terrorism, capabilities and limitations of terrorist
groups, effective counterterrorism responses, and the future prospects of terrorism.
Students will be able to identify the organization, objectives, and methodologies of key
terrorist groups operating around the globe. Prerequisites: CTR-101. (3-0-3)
CTR-201 - Islam in the Modern World

CTR-202 – Terrorism and Conventional & Improvised Explosive Devices
The course covers conventional bombs and improvised explosive devices within the
context of terrorism. The course covers the strategic and tactical use of conventional
bombs and improvised explosive devices for the terrorist. Students will be able to
identify all aspects of a conventional bomb and improvised explosive device, including
appearance, usage, parts, functions, fail-safe devices, effective kill radius, etc. Students
will also examine the characteristics of bombmaking and improvised explosive device
locations. Prerequisite: CRT-102. (3-0-3)
CTR-203 - Terrorism and Chemical, Biological, Radiological & Nuclear Weapons
The course introduces the subject of the potential employment of chemical, biological,
radiological and nuclear (CBRN) weapons and devices within the context of terrorism.
The course covers the strategic, operational and tactical use of CBRN weapons by
terrorist groups and lone actors. Students will be able to identify CBRN weapons
and devices, delivery systems, symptoms of attack, and containment and treatment
methods by emergency medical responders. Students will also be exposed to various
methodologies to forecast the potential resort to CBRN terrorist warfare and measures
used by governments to prevent such attacks. Prerequisite: CTR-202. (3-0-3).

267 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

The course covers the origins, history, and contemporary relevance of Islam in thought,
ideas, politics, and military affairs. The course examines the life and teaching of the
Prophet Muhammad, the Quran. Students will explore the early history and territorial
expansion of the Umayyads, Abbasids, major sectarian splits, Sharia and the Orthodox
Tradition, Sufism, and Sultanates. The course also explores the impact of Western
colonialism, orthodox reaction, Iranian Revolution, Islamism, neo-Wahabbism (Al-Qaida),
and jihadi movements in Afghanistan, Balkans, Caucasus, Philippines, and Kashmir.
Prerequisites: None (3-0-3)

CTR-301 - Terrorist Operations
The course examines the tactics, techniques, and procedures employed by terrorist
groups. Students will be able to identify the acquisition of financing, logistics, support
networks, weapons, and explosive materials. The course covers the roles within an
operations cell and the logistics chain prior to, during, and after an attack. Students
will be able to identify surveillance techniques, infiltration, exfiltration, social media
exploitation, support groups, and post-operations rewards. Prerequisite: CTR-202. (3-0-3)
CTR-302 - Terrorist Threat Assessments
The course covers threat assessments as applied to terrorists. Students will
understand, dissect, evaluate, and create threat assessments on terrorist groups and
potential targets based on available information and as events unfold. The course will
learn to assess a terrorist group’s capabilities, intentions, targets, and ability to conduct
operations. Prerequisite: CTR-301 (3-0-3)
CTR-401 - Homegrown Violent Extremists
Homegrown violent extremists present a terrorist threat to the United States. This
course will cover the different types of homegrown violent extremists, their casualties
and damage, and societal effects. Students will examine the similarities and differences
between homegrown violent extremists and terrorist groups originating outside of the
United States. Prerequisite: CTR-301. (3-0-3)

The course covers the violent ethno-supremacist and ultranationalist groups in Europe
that employ violent tactics. Students will examine how violent ethno-supremacist
and ultranationalist groups cooperate against immigration in Europe and a perceived
Islamization of the Europe as a whole. Students will also gain knowledge how the
violent ethno-supremacist and ultranationalist groups in Europe pose a potential threat
to U.S. and allied interests. Prerequisite: CTR-301. (3-0-3)
CTR-457 - Counterterrorism Senior Project I
Students/teams select a project area, develop an understanding of the project scope
that includes research and documentation of related work, prepare a feasibility study,
develop project requirements, propose solutions/designs, analyze proposed solutions/
design, select a final proposed solution/design, and prepare and present a preliminary
solution/design review. Students are expected to apply proper counterterrorism
concepts and project management to their work. Additional components may be
required in some projects. Students/teams submit a final report at the end of the
semester. Prerequisite: Senior standing. (3-0-3)
CTR-458 - Counterterrorism Senior Project II
This is the counterterrorism capstone course designed to challenge students as
they work individually or in small teams on a counterterrorism problem requiring

268 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CTR-402 - Violent Ethno-supremacists & Ultra-Nationalist Groups

technical expertise and aviation acumen. Drawing upon the course in technical report
writing, students are required to submit a major report outlining and analyzing a
counterterrorism problem and proposing solutions.*Note: Course must be completed
with a grade of “C” or higher to meet undergraduate graduation requirements. CTR-457
should be taken immediately before this course. Prerequisites: CTR-457. (3-0-3)
CTR-600 - Intro to Terrorism & Counterterrorism
An overview of terrorism in the modern era, ranging from how to define terrorism, the
history and evolution of modern terrorism, significant terrorist groups, motivations
and ideologies, root causes, radicalization and recruitment, organizational patterns,
leadership types, modus operandi, funding, targeting patterns and significant areas of
operations, ranging from “physical” to cyberspace. International and domestic terrorism
will be discussed. An overview of counterterrorism and core concepts, such as the
components of anti-terrorism and counter-terrorism, measures of effectiveness, the role
of strategic surprise in terrorist and counterterrorist operations. (3)

The course examines the methods, tactics, techniques, and procedures employed
by terrorist groups to conduct attack planning, funding, radicalization, recruitment,
organizational formations (group and lone actors), decision making and targeting,
agendas, propaganda, logistics, operations on the “ground” and in cyberspace, and the
spectrum of weapons used by terrorists, ranging from ‘conventional’, cyber, to weapons
of mass destruction and other technological innovations. The case study method will
be used to analyze these issues, including analyzing significant terrorist operations.
Prerequisite: CTR-600. (3)
CTR-620 - Elements of Counterterrorism
This course addresses the components of counterterrorism conceptually, such as, antiterrorism and counterterrorism, and the roles of components such as those that are
political, law enforcement, military, intelligence, and socio-economic. It will introduce
the students to counterterrorism measures such as how to respond to terrorist
outbreaks in the form of integrated campaigns that incorporate measures such as how
to understand the nature of a terrorist adversary, the root causes that might underlie
an insurgency, how to map the trajectory into violence, how to counter terrorist groups
and lone actors, how to formulate counter violent extremism campaigns (including
deradicalization, disengagement, and rehabilitation of terrorists from violence), and
how to counter terrorism on the Internet. The course would also present metrics used
in formulating measures of campaign effectiveness, campaign end-states, and best
practices in how terrorist insurgencies are terminated. Using the case study method,
significant terrorism case histories will be analyzed, such as in Northern Ireland, the
Israelis and Palestinians, countering al Qaida and ISIS, as well as domestic cases in the
United States. Prerequisite: CTR-610. (3)

269 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CTR-610 - Methods of Terrorists

CTR-630 - Methods of Counterterrorism
This course will examine the components of anti-terrorism and counterterrorism,
domestically and internationally. It will focus on significant government agencies
involved in countering terrorism, with a primary focus on how the U.S. Government is
organized to address the terrorism threat at the national and local levels, domestically
and internationally. The components of countering violent extremism will also be
discussed. Using the case study method, it will examine significant terrorist adversaries
and governmental responses to their attacks. The responses of several U.S. allies will
also be examined for comparison purposes. The program’s overall concepts will be
applied to assess programmatic effectiveness and lessons learned. The components of
target hardening and other defensive measures, as well as upgrading societal resilience
in responding to terrorist threats will also be covered. Prerequisite: CTR-620. (3)
CTR-640 - Tools & Techniques of Counterterrorism
This course focuses on significant methodologies and technological tools that are
employed in counterterrorism, with each weekly module applying each one to a different
counterterrorism topic. Beginning with an overview on the use of technologies in
counterterrorism, relevant methodologies and tools will be applied and operationalized,
such as Analyst’s Notebook, Social Network Analysis, Excel, Root Cause Analysis,
Enterprise Security Risk Management, Metrics of Programmatic Effectiveness,
Forecasting Methodologies, Datamining, Protective Intelligence Platforms, Artificial
Intelligence, and others. Prerequisite: CTR-630 (3)

This course covers homeland security as it is practiced globally, using significant
countries around the world that face major and multi-natured domestic security threats
as case studies. These countries include the United States, Canada, China, Great Britain,
India, Israel, Russia, South Africa, United States, Sweden, and others. The homeland
security threats facing these and other nations examined include climate change,
cyber-attacks, man-made and natural disasters, terrorism, virus pandemics, border
breaches, ungoverned territories, and others. Students will learn about the principles
and components of emergency management, including analytic methodologies
and software tools (including risk management tools) utilized by homeland security
agencies around the world, with several of them used to produce class reports.
Prerequisite: CTR-600; INT-600.
CTR-660 - Comparative Cyber Security
This class explores how government agencies around the world address cyber securityrelated threats facing them at the government and private sector levels (including
their critical infrastructure sectors). Intelligence analytic- and emergency management
response- related methodologies and tools will be used to examine these issues. The
case study countries include the United States, Canada, China, Great Britain, India,
Israel, Russia, South Africa, United States, Sweden, and others. Countries and criminal

270 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CTR-650 - Comparative Homeland Security

and hacking groups that engage in cyber weapon attacks will be covered, focusing
on the types of cyber-attacks that are conducted, as well as the motivations behind
such attacks. Defense- in-depth principles, methodologies and tools required for
effective cyber security programs will be covered. Also covered will be the principles
and components of cyber-security- related emergency management that are required
to mitigate such threats. In addition to the weekly discussion, students will produce a
research paper that will focus on cyber threats against “country X” and its cyber-security
response measures. Prerequisite: CTR-650.
CTR-680 - Seminar in Terrorism & Counterterrorism
Students will review counterterrorism-related Enterprise Security Risk Management
(ESRM) methodologies and the approaches to identifying and prioritizing assets, risks,
and mitigations that provide a return on investment (ROI). This will be based on the
formula of Risk = Threat, Vulnerability, and Consequence. Leading experts in industry
and government will be featured lecturers. Students will learn to effectively apply
security risk management methodologies as a tool in their daily work. Prerequisite: Next
to last course in degree program. (3)
CTR-705 - Counterterrorism Capstone Project
The final course in the program is a practicum, with the students writing a thesis in
which they apply one or more of the counterterrorism software tools to analyze and
effectively communicate how to resolve a significant terrorism case. Prerequisite: Last
course in degree program. (3)

The student will focus on the study of the latest counterterrorism strategies, tactics and
developments. The student will synthesize the growing effect of counterterrorism on
current operations, international relationships and effects on the field, and where there
are areas of improvements or failings. The focus will be to start identifying areas for
research at a later stage and explore the background of counterterrorism. The faculty
will directly support and mentor the exploration phase of the planning. (6)
CTR-810 - Counterterrorism Research Methodologies
Under a Chair and committee, a student will continue evaluating and develop research
methodologies and strategies suitable for understanding counterterrorism and address
the data sources, information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis or research question.
It is expected the student will be building upon CTR-800 in refining and developing their
research task and plan. (6)
CTR-820 - Counterterrorism Future Demands
Under a Chair and committee, a student will research the future demands in the
counterterrorism field and how these influence specific research questions. Data
collection and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of counterterrorism

271 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CTR-800 - Counterterrorism Research Background

on the short, medium and long term. The literature review will be more specific in focus
and direction at this stage. (6)
CTR-830 - Strategies for Counterterrorism
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the counterterrorism field under the direction of their Chair/
committee. (6)
CTR-840 - Counterterrorism Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives
and include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research
milestones according to the proposal and research plan. The IRB and ARB will need to
be completed at this stage. (6)
CTR-900 - Counterterrorism Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. Any disagreement within
the committee will be reviewed by the Dean of Doctoral Programs. (6)

The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 (methodology chapter that is robust
and identifies all implications) according to the approved proposal. After receiving the
necessary approvals, the student will conduct data collection and analysis activities
consistent with the research plan. (6)
CTR-920 - Counterterrorism Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
CTR-930 - Counterterrorism Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to the student’s
Chair and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their
research. The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete
document. The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document
to the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must
receive approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance
forward. (6)
CTR-940 - Counterterrorism Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will

272 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

CTR-910 - Counterterrorism Doctoral Writing II

prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
DS-270 - Organization of Data
The storage, manipulation, assessment, and display of data, as well as associated
challenges, are covered in the course “Organization of Data”. With a distinctive approach
that emphasizes both the consequences of data use and concerns as well as database
construction and tool use, DS 270 brings databases to life. The fundamentals and
core concepts of databases and the technologies they are related to are covered in
this introductory course. The design, development, and deployment of enterprise-wide
information systems are all crucial to the topics that will be covered in this course.
Students will gain knowledge of the social, moral, and ethical problems that accompany
such implementations as they progress through their investigation. The following are
some of the course’s objectives: Offer an introduction to databases and database
technology. (3)

The course provides students with an introduction to data sciences, a developing
field that focuses on the knowledge and abilities required to harness the power of
data to advance science and engineering, address difficult domestic and international
problems, inform public policy, and enhance people’s lives. It illustrates how computer
science, statistics, and informatics knowledge and abilities are integrated into the field
of data science (with exposure to application domains such as life science, health
science, cyber security, astronomy, etc.). Students are introduced to the “high-level
view” of data science, including elements for understanding data through exploratory
data analysis, testing hypotheses against data, and building predictive models, all using
real-world examples, through a combination of lectures, manual lectures on workshops,
and case studies. DS 275 will present these concepts in a simpler way with much more
emphasis on data science applications. Understanding of these concepts is tested
through assignments and exams. (3)
DS-279 - Machine Learning for Data Analytics
This course introduces the principles of machine learning (and data mining),
representative machine learning algorithms, and their applications to real-world
problems. Topics covered include basic approaches to clustering, classification
and approximation of data functions, feature selection and dimension reduction,
performance evaluation of alternative models, and relative strengths and weaknesses
of alternative approaches. The course includes a laboratory component to provide
students with hands-on experience in applying algorithms to problems in a variety of
fields. The prerequisites for the course are basic knowledge of programming, basic
knowledge of probability and statistics, and discrete mathematics. (3)

273 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

DS-275 - Language, Logic, and Discrete Mathematics

DS-289 - Data Integration
The integration of data from multiple disparate sources is becoming increasingly
important in modern data-intensive applications. Students in this course will learn
about the principles and practices of data integration, including relational, knowledgebased, graph-based, and probabilistic approaches. Students’ understanding of both
theoretical and practical underpinnings will be enhanced by carefully crafted data
integration assignments. Each student will work in a team to solve a real-world data
integration problem. Following the completion of this course, students should be able
to design, implement, and evaluate data integration solutions for use in data-intensive
applications. (3)
DSM-802 - Fundamentals of Doctoral Learning
Students of doctoral level programs are taught the ability to create knowledge through
original research in their areas of specialization. This course will orient new doctoral
students to learning, researching, and writing, and prepare them for the entire program
of study. Students will be introduced to critical thinking skills necessary for doctoral
research. Students will be introduced to the standards of ethical research. (6)

Information systems represent a critical resource to organizations; yet, there are many
unknowns about how to successfully design and implement those systems and many
firms today continue to struggle with the deployment process. This seminar explores
issues associated with the implementation of information systems in organizations –
including requirements analysis, project management, outsourcing, and virtual teams
– using a variety of theoretical or conceptual lenses such as control and coordination,
organizational change, and trust. The emphasis of this course is on understanding
Information Systems implementation from an organizational perspective. (3)
DSM-910 - Analytics and Decision Analysis
Course focus is predominantly on predictive analytics. Topics include both theoretical
and a practical applications of key methods of prediction, and data mining. The course
will extensively use SAS and Tableau to solve problems. Case-study approach to
problem solving is used. Prerequisite: DSM-802 (3)
DSM-915 - Applied Statistics & Visualization for Analytics
Introduces multivariate regression and random forests for modeling data. Addresses
data access, variable selection and model diagnostics. Introduces foundations for
visual thinking. Reviews common statistical graphics such as dot plots, box plots, q-q
plots. Addresses more advanced methods such as scatterplot matrices enhanced by
smoothed or density contours, and search tools for finding graphics with suggestive
patterns. Course will introduce R software for analysis. A final project will involve
visualization of a real data set. Prerequisite: Undergraduate statistics. (3)

274 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

DSM-905 - Organizational Change & Information Systems Implementation

DSM-920 - Big Data Warehousing & Analytic Systems
This course will equip the student with the necessary skills to solve complex problems
and design solutions using Big Data. The student will be able to gain an understanding
of how to design databases to manage large volumes of data from multiple sources,
and how that data can be analyzed and translated into meaningful results. The
student will be introduced to the field of Analytics, gain an understanding of Enterprise
Data Warehousing models, be introduced to Data Mining techniques and tools used
for mining the data warehouse, and build specific Data Marts. The student will be
introduced to predictive analysis and will be expected to develop models to extract
data, perform trend analysis, establish patterns, and make projections. Prerequisites:
Ability to use Structured Query Language with a basic relational database system;
ability to read pseudo code, and understand basic data structures like arrays; and, an
understanding of algebra and basic probability and statistics would be helpful, though
not required. Prerequisite: DSM-915
DSM-945 - Optimization Techniques for Management Development

DSM-955 - Introduction to Python Programming
The Python programming course will assist students with their understanding of the
application, programming, and analytical use of Python as a means to making intelligent
decisions based on the results of pulling and parsing through big data. Python is
typically used for sorting and analyzing large data files and evaluating online sites
to illustrate the larger issue of any type of research project or study. The fast pace
of never-ending digitalized data and emerging technology research makes Python
programming language the ideal resource for collecting and presenting such vast
amounts of data in a sensible and easy to understand format. (3)
DSR-881 - Special Topics in Research
This course provides students with the opportunity to examine in-depth issues relevant
to their research. This course may result in a publishable paper. (3)
DSR-882 - Special Topics in Research II
This course provides students the opportunity to examine in-depth issues relevant to
their research. This course may result in a publishable paper. (3)
DSR-883 - Special Topics in Research III

275 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

This course seeks to enable the students to develop the ethical leadership strategies
and communication skills needed to motivate and mobilize co-workers so all can
achieve core business goals. The theoretical framework for the course will be drawn
from histories’ great military and political leaders. The practice will involve the
participants in competing and cooperating with their peers to maximize development
of the resources their unit needs to grow and succeed. The exercises will enhance
negotiation skills and self-insights into each participant’s ethical world view. (3)

This course provides students the opportunity to examine in-depth issues relevant to
their research. This course may result in a publishable paper. (3)
DSR-884 - Special Topics in Research IV
This course provides students with the opportunity to examine in-depth issues relevant
to their research. Students must request a faculty member who is a topic specific expert
to facilitate the course. This course may result in a publishable paper. (3)
DSR-900 - Writing the Doctoral Dissertation
Students work individually with the dissertation mentor to complete the dissertation
proposal and prepare for the competency examination. Prerequisite: DSR-925. (3)
DSR-925 - Dissertation Preparation I
(Residency) Students will generate significant portions of the dissertation proposal and
receive faculty feedback on completed sections. Prerequisite: RSC-812. (3)

The goal of this course is to provide an overview of the multi-faceted, global, and
interdisciplinary field of security management. It takes a view from the top and
presents future managers need to know about information security. The material
covered addresses the managerial aspects of information security for future managers.
Examples of information security issues and practices implemented in today’s business
environment are presented and skills reinforced as they are learned through hands-on
activities and a real-world case project. The course features numerous examples and
case studies specific to security management, identifies specific security applications
and examines the issues encountered within those areas. Prerequisite: DSM-920; RSC815 (3) RESIDENCY Students will also have the opportunity to receive guidance from
faculty mentors in both the group and one-on-one environment in the development of
the dissertation proposal.
DSR-935 - Dissertation Preparation II
DSC Cybersecurity students complete the dissertation milestones developed by the
student and the mentor. Students who are not prepared to defend after completing DSR935 must enroll in RSC-899. Prerequisite: DSR-900. (3)
DSR-940 - Proposal Writing I
This course focuses on completion of chapters one and two.(3)
DSR-941 - Proposal Writing II
This course focuses on completion of chapters two and three. (3)
DSR-942 - Proposal Writing III
This course focuses on submission of proposal to IRB and ARB. (3)
276 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

DSR-930 – Management & Security of Information

DSR-945 - Dissertation Preparation I
Assists PHD Business Analytics and Decision Sciences students through the proposal
and dissertation writing processes. Prerequisite: DSR-930 (3)
DSR-950 - Dissertation Presentation & Oral Defense
DSc Cybersecurity learners prepare the dissertation for publication. Learner research is
examined through an oral defense. Prerequisite: DSR-935. (3)
DSR-951 - Dissertation Research I
This course is a continuation of research in preparation for the submission of a doctoral
dissertation proposal. (3)
DSR-952 - Dissertation Research II
This course is a continuation of research in preparation for the submission of a doctoral
dissertation proposal. (3)
DSR-953 - Dissertation Research III
This course is a continuation of research in preparation for the submission of a doctoral
dissertation proposal. (3)
DSR-960 - Dissertation Pres. & Oral Defense

EE-285 - Programming Logic Controllers & Networks
Introduces programmable logic controllers (PLCs). Emphasizes ladder diagrams and
programming of PLC. Introduces network systems such as DeviceNet, ProfiNet, and
ProfiBus. Emphasizes the integration of PLCs in automation systems. Two hours lecture
and three hours laboratory. Prerequisites: EL-200. (3-0-3).
EE-300 - Power Supply and Regulator Design
Design and analysis of power supplies and regulators. Includes special adjustable
and fixed voltage regulator ICs, three-pin regulators, switch-mode supplies. DC to DC
convertors. Supply topologies, power handling, current limiting methods. Prerequisites:
EL-250 and MA-261. (2-2-3)
EE-304 - Digital Design I
Minimization of Boolean functions using Kamaugh Maps and Quine-McCluskey
Tabulation. Multilevel circuits: FPGA’s. Combinational logic design with MSI LSI. Chip
count reduction. Sequential circuit analysis and design. State tables and state diagrams.
Asynchronous circuit design. Introduction to FPGA design software. Students design,
simulate and build circuits. Prerequisite: EL-204. (3-0-3)

277 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

PhD Business Analytics learners prepare the dissertation for publication. Learner
research is examined through an oral defense. (3)

EE-309 - Circuit Design and Simulation
An advanced circuit analysis course that introduces students to computer-aided
electronics packages and automated design. Students design and analyze circuits both
mathematically and with computer simulation. Students build the circuits and compare
predicted results with measured results obtained in the laboratory. Prerequisites: MA261 and EL-250 or equivalent. (2-2-3)
EE-340 - Systems Engineering
An interdisciplinary course with both technical and management aspects of large,
multifaceted engineering projects. Special emphasis placed on design, implementation,
and improvement of mechatronic systems. Topics include systems engineering,
engineering management, economics, quality control and engineering, project
management, production systems planning and operations, and human factors.
Prerequisite: BUS-301. (3-0-3)
EE-353 - Power Systems Engineering
Fundamentals of power transmission and electric motors. Single versus three-phase,
poly-phase systems, synchronous, asynchronous machines. DC and compound DC
motors, induction motors. Equivalent circuit modeling of motors. Start-up conditions.
Transformers, Transmission of Electrical Energy, Energy Distribution and Harmonics.
Prerequisites: EL-150 and MA-261. (3-0-3)

Continuation of Digital Design I. Students explore larger-scale digital arithmetic and
logic development using VHDL and a current FPGA development board. Students design
and build circuits according to design objectives in two parts: students design, compile
and verify their circuits using timing simulation on computers; then build and test
circuits for upload to an FPGA. Final project involves design, assembly and testing of a
VHDL-based system. Prerequisite: EE-304. Offered during spring semester only. (2-2-3)
EE-359 - High-Frequency Circuit Design
Students are taught to design, build and test microwave amplifiers using S-parameters
and Smith Charts in conjunction with modern circuit design and simulation software.
Both bipolar and field effect transistors are used to design amplifiers to specifications
regarding signal flow gain, noise figure and intercept point. Students fabricate
microstrip circuit boards using an in-house milling machine and then test the completed
amplifiers in the laboratory. Actual and simulated results are presented. Prerequisite:
EE-309. (2-2-3)
EE-362 - Microcontroller System Design
Study of a state-of-the-art microcontroller and related families. Evaluation board
hardware preparation and checkout. PC to board interfaces. Assembler and C-compiler.
Configuration registers for code and program protection. On-chip memories. Serial

278 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

EE-354 - Digital Design II

peripheral interface and parallel I/O routines. A/D converter, real-time interrupts
and timer applications. A series of three group projects are required leading up to
a final stand-alone project. Prerequisite: EL-262 or microcomputer, micro-assembly
background. (2-2-3)
EE-364 - Computer Architecture
Design and architecture of modern computers. System components: processor, memory
and interfaces. Instruction sets and operations. Reduced instruction sets (RISC) and
RISC architecture. Processor design to support RISC instruction set. Evolution to parallel
processing and multiprocessing. Prerequisite: EL-204. Offered during spring semester
only. (2-2-3)
EE-382 - Robotic Systems
An introduction to the design and control of autonomous robots. Mechanical
considerations and review. Interfacing issues and programming. Sensors for
perception and environmental detection and navigational ability. Students will develop
algorithms and use machine learning techniques to generate programs to control
electromechanical systems to perform tasks. Team based projects and laboratories.
Prerequisites: EL-262. (2-2-3)

Application of engineering principles of research into a special project. Projects vary
from semester to semester. Students primarily work in a guided study environment with
a faculty mentor. Prerequisites: permission of instructor and department chair and at
least junior standing. This course may be repeated with different projects. (1-4-3)
EE-403 - Environment/Renewable Energy Systems
Teaches the students theory and practice for direct production of electricity from
alternate energy sources such as solar, wind and geothermal. Course material includes
characteristics of direct energy conversion, and storage devices used in alternate
energy sources. Impact of solar heating and lighting on building design is also
introduced. Concepts of engineering economics are discussed as well. This course will
expose students to concepts applied in electrical, civil and mechanical engineering and
architecture. Prerequisite: Senior status. (3-0-3)
EE-404 - Large-scale Digital Design
Analysis and modeling of digital systems, VLSI, VHDL timing, objects and classes.
VHDL-based design processes, concurrent and sequential assignments. Variable
modes and operators, entities and architectures, behavioral descriptions. Dataflow,
synchronous and asynchronous processes using procedures and sub-functions. Library
support packages and generation of test-bench data. Prerequisite: EE-354. Offered
during fall semester only. (2-2-3)

279 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

EE-400 - Special Projects in Engineering

EE-406 - Signals and Systems
Mathematical models, systems, signal classifications, I/O differential and difference
equations, block diagram realizations, discrete-time systems. Convolutions: discretetime and continuous-time. The Z-transform in linear discrete-time systems, transfer
functions. Trigonometric Fourier series, polar and rectangular forms, odd/even
functions, response of a linear system to periodic input. Fourier transform, symmetry
properties, transform theorems, linear filtering, modulation theorem. Laplace and
Fourier transforms and their properties. Prerequisite: MA-262 and MA-340. Offered
during fall semester only. (3-0-3)
EE-409 - Network Analysis and Synthesis
Comparison of analysis and synthesis. Transfer function and frequency response:
phase and time delay. Familiarization with complex impedance and admittance
functions. Active filter design: bandpass, bandreject, FDNR and gyrator. Impedance
evaluation: Foster I, Foster II, Cauer I and Cauer II. Synthesis of Butterwork and
Chebyshev filters. Sensitivity of networks to parameter changes. Prerequisite: EE-309
(2-2-3)

Waveguide theory: modes of operation. Waveguide components: tuners, windows,
sifters, tees and couplers, filters, mixers, isolators, circulators. Microwave tubes.
Klystrons: multicavity and reflex. Magnetron, traveling wave tubes, backward wave
oscillators, amplifier techniques, microwave semiconductors: operations and
applications. Microwave measurement techniques. Prerequisite: MA-340 and PH-262.
Offered during fall semester only. (2-2-3)
EE-419 - Electrostatics
Stationary electric and magnetic fields. Gauss’s Law, Laplace and Poisson’s equations.
Solutions to static field problems. Ampere’s Law, Faraday’s Law. Prerequisites: PH-263
and MA-340. Offered during fall semester only. (3-0-3)
EE-452 - Advanced Microcontroller System Design
Extension of EE-362. Project course utilizing commercially available microcontroller
EVB boards. Fuzzy logic introduction. Programming using fuzzy logic rules and high
performance design techniques. Students design, select, build, and generate code for
microcontroller-based systems. Prototypes are evaluated and debugged before final
assembly. Written report and oral presentation required. Prerequisite: EE-362. Offered
spring semester only. (1-4-3)
EE-453 - Control I
Introductory concepts. Feedback control systems and derivation of transfer function.
System response for undamped and damped systems. Testing for system stability,
coefficient test, Routh-Hurwitz technique. System performance, system types, steady

280 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

EE-415 - Microwave Theory and Devices

state error and error coefficients calculation. Design of compensator. System bode
plots, crossover frequencies, gain and phase margins. The course will stress use of a
variety of famous industrial computer-aided control system design software packages.
Prerequisite: MA-340 (2-2-3)
EE-456 - Digital Signal Processing
Discrete-time methods applied to continuous-time processes. Use of Z, fast-Fourier and
discrete transforms. Design methods for digital filters. Digital filter software packages
introduced. Prerequisite: EE-406. Offered during spring semester only. (2-2-3)
EE-457 - Senior Design Project I
Students/teams select a project, develop an understanding of the project scope that
includes research and documentation of related work, prepare a feasibility study,
develop project requirements (constraints) and engineering, software, and/or security
specifications, propose solutions and multiple designs, analyze proposed designs,
select a final proposed design, and prepare and present a preliminary design review
(PDR). Students are expected to apply proper systems engineering and project
management to their work. Additional components may be required in some projects.
Students/teams submit a final report at the end of the semester. Pre-requisite: Senior
standing. (3-0-3)

Students/teams build and test their selected designs (completed in EE-457). Each
student team delivers a tested prototype and defends its project in front of a panel of
experts. Students/teams submit a final report that includes description of the design,
realization, and test processes as well as test results, discussion, and conclusion.
Failure to deliver a completed design and a working prototype that meets engineering,
software, and/or security specifications by the end of the semester may result in failing
the course. *Note: Course must be completed with a grade of “C” or higher to meet
undergraduate graduation requirements. Prerequisite: EE-457 (3-0-3)
EE-459 - Electromagnetic Field Theory
Continuation of EE-419. Time-varying electric and magnetic fields. Boundary conditions.
Maxwell’s equations and applications to wave phenomena. Relation of classical circuit
theory to Maxwell’s equations. Prerequisites: PH-263 and MA-340. Offered during spring
semester only. (3-0-3)
EE-460 - Electromagnetic Fields
Stationary electric and magnetic fields. Gauss’s Law, Laplace and Poisson’s equations.
Solutions to static field problems. Ampere’s Law, Faraday’s Law. Time-varying electric
and magnetic fields. Boundary conditions. Maxwell’s equations and applications to
wave phenomena. Prerequisites: PH-263 and MA-340. (3-0-3)

281 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

EE-458 - Senior Design Project II

EE-461 - Communications Theory
Fourier analysis. Signal and spectral analysis of AM and FM systems. Noise
representations; power spectral density and quadrate decomposition. Signal-to-noise
improvement in AM and FM demodulators. Maximum likelihood digital signal detection.
Signal space representation of modulated signals. Modulated signal detection and
bit-error rate calculations for OOK, BPSK, QPSK, QAM, M-ary PSK and M-ary FSK.
Prerequisites: EL-261 and MA-345. (3-0-3)
EE-463 - Control II
Introduction to state diagrams and state equations. Solutions of state equations for
simple systems. Root-locus techniques, compensation, optimization of stability and
error. Multiparameter root locus. Nyquist criterion and time domain design. System
performance indexes: ISE, IAE, ITAE and ITSE. Modern control engineering: state
variable methods, controllable and observable/estimator, observer design and design
of optimal control system. Prerequisites: EE-453. Offered during spring semester only.
(3-0-3)
EE-500 - Advanced Signals and Systems

EE-600 - Mathematical Analysis
Advanced mathematics for scientists and engineers as either a review or an advanced
introduction. Differential equations, Laplace transforms, linear algebra, vector analysis,
introduction to tensor analysis, complex variables and probability. Many calculation
techniques using an appropriate software tool are introduced. (3)
EE-607 - Electromagnetic Interference & Compatibly
Overview of Electromagnetic Interference with examples. Conducted and radiated
emission. Mutual Capacitance and Inductance. Coupling Paths. Crosstalk. Shielding
Theory and Applications. Modeling of circuits in noise applications. Parasitics and
their reduction. Ferrite beads and chokes. Open Area Test Sites. Anechoic chambers.
TEM cells. Reverberation chambers. Frequency and time domain analysis of noise.
Grounding issues and their reduction. Bonding Electrostatic Discharge. Extremely Fast
Transients, Surge EMI filters Cables, Connectors and Components. Electromagnetic
pulses and Lightning. Offered during spring semester. (3)
EE-708 - Master’s Project Research
This course will cover all aspects of proposing and executing a research and

282 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Signal representation using step and impulse functions. Differential equation
description of linear systems and classical solutions. Laplace transforms in linear
systems. Trigonometric and complex exponential Fourier series. Fourier transforms.
Parseval’s theorems. State-variable equations and solutions. The sampling theorem
and the Nyquist criterion. Using Z-transforms to represent and analyze sampled data
systems. (3)

development task, in respond to Broad Agency Announcements. Creating preliminary
response, including quad charts and white papers. Techniques for providing a rough
order of magnitude (ROM) cost. Preparing the full final proposal, including abstract,
statement of work, schedule, milestones, deliverables, risk mitigation, preplanned
follow-on efforts, procurement, subcontracts, describing the labor mix, and developing
a full cost proposal. Attention will be given to protection of proprietary information,
protection of intellectual property, and to compliance with Federal Acquisition
Regulations (the FAR). The course will culminate with the execution of a mock project,
with final deliverables, and final closeout of the project. Examples from Federal R&D
projects in public domain will be used throughout the course. Offered during fall
semester. (3)
EE-710 - Designing for Reliability & Manufacturing
Design methodology and standards applied in the construction and assembly of
electronic circuits for reliability. Redundancy, parallel structure and majority rule
circuits. Materials and component selection. Vibrational analysis, thermal analysis and
packaging. Classification of hardware for commercial, military or space applications.
MIL-spec and IPC standards discussed. (3)

Design for testability. Types of testing, functional testing, and structural testing.
Automatic test pattern generation. Scanning and scan-based design rules. Critical
paths. Memory test and diagnostics. Built-in self-testing. ATE equipment, local and
remote testing and limitations. Students will have access to on-line test workstations.
(3)
EE-758 - Master’s Project
Students integrate prior course work and personal experiences into a master’s project.
Students develop a full final proposal, including abstract, statement of work, schedule,
milestones, and deliverables. Proposal must be delivered to class and approval of
project advisor required. Regular progress reports required. Final presentation will be
live over the Internet. Offered during spring semester. Prerequisite: Completion of at
least 18 credit hours of graduate coursework. (3)
EGA-120 - Introduction to Esports Management
Esports is one of the fastest growing industries, attracting 450 million viewers and
generating over $1bn in revenue in 2020. This course will introduce you to the history
of competitive gaming and will explore its ecosystem. You will learn to navigate
Esports leagues, teams, players, publishers, tournament operators, media and affiliate
organizations. Furthermore, you’ll get firsthand experience in analyzing the space.
Course offered through LCMC Rize consortium partner - ESM1 (3-0-3)
EGA-340 - Convention, Event & Trade Show Plan

283 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

EE-720 - Designing for Testability

One of the major ways in which games are marketed to consumers is the convention.
Shows like the Tokyo Game Show, PAX and E3 attract audiences ranging from 60,000
- 300,000 and serve as one of the best opportunities for game studios to generate
excitement and favorable word-of-mouth for upcoming projects. Successfully executing
a company presence at one of these shows requires a working understanding of
budgeting, goal-setting, demo creation, logistics, staffing, merchandising, and ROI
evaluation, all topics covered in this course. Prerequisites: GDV-101 and Sophomore
Standing. Course offered through LCMC Rize consortium partner - ESM II (3-0-3)
EGA-421 - Distribution of Games: Role of Publisher
The role of a publisher in the games industry is to ensure that a game can get in
front of its audience successfully. To do that, a publisher must consider a variety of
distribution strategies and channels. This course explains the role of a publisher in
game distribution and details the various channels by which a game can be distributed.
Prerequisites: GDV-101 and BUS-276. Course offered through LCMC Rize consortium
partner - ESM III
EGM-800 - Engineering Management Research Background
The student will focus on the study of the latest Engineering Management strategies,
tactics and developments. The student will synthesize the growing effect of Engineering
Management on current operations, international relationships and effects on the field,
and where there are areas of improvements or failings. The faculty will directly support
and mentor the exploration phase of the planning. Prerequisite: None. (6)

Under a Chair and committee, a student will continue evaluating and develop research
methodologies and strategies suitable for understanding Engineering Management and
address the data sources, information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis or research
question. It is expected the student will be building upon EGM-800 in refining and
developing their research task and plan. Prerequisite: EGM-800. (6)
EGM-820 - Engineering Management Future Demands
Under a Chair and committee, a student will further research the future demands in the
Engineering Management field and how these influence specific research questions.
Data collection and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Engineering
Management on the short, medium and long term. The literature review will be more
specific in focus and direction at this stage. Prerequisite: EGM-810. (6)
EGM-830 - Strategies for Engineering Management
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the Engineering Management field under the direction
of their Chair/committee. A firm direction and draft of a methodology will be taking
shape and direction. The topic will be reviewed to ensure the scope is not too broad.

284 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

EGM-810 - Engineering Management Research Methodologies

Prerequisite: EGM-820. (6)
EGM-840 - Engineering Management Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives
and include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research
milestones according to the proposal and research plan. The IRB and ARB will need to
be completed by this stage. Prerequisite: EGM-830. (6)
EGM-900 - Engineering Management Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. The material for these
chapters will have been established in the HAC 800 series. Any disagreement within the
committee will be reviewed by the Dean of Doctoral Programs. Prerequisite: EGM-840.
(6)
EGM-910 - Engineering Management Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 (methodology chapter that is robust
and identifies all implications) according to the approved proposal. After receiving the
necessary approvals, the student will conduct data collection and analysis activities
consistent with the research plan. Prerequisite: EGM-900. (6)

The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s
Chair and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance.
Prerequisite: EGM-910. (6)
EGM-930 - Engineering Management Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to the student’s
Chair and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their
research. The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete
document. The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document
to the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must
receive approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance
forward. Prerequisite: EGM-920. (6)
EGM-940 - Engineering Management Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and

285 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

EGM-920 - Engineering Management Doctoral Writing III

necessary final oral defense of the research. Prerequisite: EGM-930. (6)
EL-100 - Introduction to DC/AC Circuits
Basic electrical concepts and laboratory techniques. Current, voltage, resistance and
power. Ohm’s law, series and parallel resistive circuits. Kirchhoff’s voltage and current
laws. Loading effects on meters and supplies. Capacitors and Inductors. Charging
and discharging. RC and RL time constants. Introduction to AC. Sinusoidal waveforms,
phasors and use of the J operator. Reactance and admittance. Average values and
RMS. Laboratory emphasis is on the proper use of standard meters, testing equipment
and circuit breadboarding. MATLAB Part I: Introduction to MATLAB, variables, MATLAB
functions, data types, writing a MATLAB program, using basic plotting functions.
Corequisite: MA-112. (2-2-3)

Applications of Kirchhoff laws to multiple source and complex series-parallel
circuits. Determinants and matrices. Mesh and nodal analysis. Network Theorems:
Thevenin, Norton, superposition, maximum power transfer. Review of complex number
manipulation. Application to capacitive and inductive circuits, impedance. Complex
Mesh analysis. Network theorems applied to complex RLC networks. Frequency
response of RL and RC circuits. Plotting frequency response. Bode plots. Laboratory
emphasis on the use of standard test equipment to verify theory. MATLAB Part II: input
and output statements, importing data from spreadsheets, text files and other formats
into MATLAB, conditional statements, loops, arrays, array functions. Prerequisites: EL100 Corequisite: Math (MA-114 or MA-114 Placement Test equivalent or MA-261 or MA261 Placement Test equivalent). (2-2-3)
EL-200 - Electronic Devices & Circuits
Principles and characteristics of semiconductor devices. Devices covered include
diodes, Zener diodes, bipolar junction transistors, field-effect transistors, and
operational amplifiers. Includes bias networks, operating points, maximum output and
optimum bias, and DC and AC load lines. Input and output impedances, and voltage and
current gains for each amplifier configuration. Prerequisite: EL-150 (2-2-3)
EL-204 - Digital Electronics
Number systems, including binary, octal and hexadecimal bases. Binary arithmetic.
Boolean algebra, Karnaugh map simplification. Design of combinational circuits.
Decoders, multiplexers, flip-flops and other multi-vibrator circuits. Logic families
including TTL, CMOS, ECL and others. Memory, shift registers and counters. (2-2-3)
EL-210 – Radio Frequency Fundamentals
This course covers RF fundamentals. Topics will include transmitting and receiving
electromagnetic waves, radiation patterns, thermal noise, codes and standards related
to antennas, installation practices, RF safety, and troubleshooting. Prerequisite: EL-261.
(2-2-3)
286 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

EL-150 - DC/AC Circuits and Analysis

EL-212 - Transmission Lines
Study of transmissions lines: characteristic impedance, propagation constant, standing
wave ratio and reflection coefficient. Transmission line response to transients. Bounce
diagrams. Lossless and lossy line analysis using classical approach as well as graphical
approach (Smith Chart). Voltage and power calculations on transmission lines.
Matching techniques for transmission lines and discrete circuits. Measurements using
vector network analyzers. Prerequisite: EL-150. Offered spring semester only. (2-2-3)
EL-220 - Fabrication and Troubleshooting
Covers the basic methods of circuit construction and troubleshooting, including
IC fabrication, wire wrapping, soldering, etching and chassis layout. Identification
and removal of components; project oriented; may be used as a technical elective.
Prerequisite: EL-150 (1-4-3)
EL-240 - Mobile & Cellular Communication Systems
The course is designed to give the student the theory and technologies generally
used in mobile communications. Topics covered include modulation, transmission,
demodulation, antennas and propagation loss, interference, and system performance.
Cell structure and frequency re-use. Digital signaling principles. Channel access in
cellular systems. System aspects of current mobile systems: 2G (GSM), 2.5G (GPRS ,
EDGE) and 3G (UMTS, HSDPA), GERAN and UTRAN, Long Term Evolution (LTE). Pre-req:
EL-210. (2-2-3)

Amplifier theory. Analysis of circuits in small signal operation, equivalent circuit
models, frequency response and Bode plots. Cascaded stages with direct, capacitor
and transformer coupling of amplifier stages, loads and signal sources. Analysis
of power transfer, efficiency, thermal effects, and distortion of amplifier circuits in
large signal operation, amplifier operating classes and push-pull amplifier circuits.
Operational Amplifier applications. Regulators. Oscillators: Wein Bridge, RC phase shift,
Hartley, Colpitts, Clapp, Negative resistance and crystal types. MATLAB Part III: using
Simscape Electronics for modeling integrated circuits such as operational amplifiers.
Prerequisites: EL-200. (2-2-3)
EL-255 - Introduction to Control and Robotic
Open and closed loop control systems compared with examples. Conditions, which
determine a robot. Permanent magnet, brushless, series and shunt motors. Stepper
motors. Reversing circuits and speed control techniques. Gear trains and effect on
speed, acceleration and torque. Robot power supplies, robot arm and gripper, degrees
of freedom and work envelope. Frequency response of control system components.
Introduction to Power electronics. Transducers used in robotics. Prerequisite: EL-200.
(2-2-3)

287 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

EL-250 - Advanced Analog Circuits

EL-261 - Introduction to Communication Circuits & Systems
Fundamental concepts in communications. Amplitude and frequency modulation.
Waveform and waveform analysis. Spectral content of signal. Circuits used to
generate signal. Signal recovery circuits. Introduction to digital modulation and digital
waveforms. Students build and test circuits. MATLAB Part IV: using Communications
System Toolbox for analysis, design, simulation and verification of communication
systems. Prerequisites: EL-200. Corequisite: MA-261. Offered during spring semester
only. (2-2-3)
EL-262 - Microprocessors and Microassembly
Introduction to microprocessors. Architecture. Fetch and execute cycles.
Microprocessor instruction set and assembly language programming. Hardware
configuration, pin functions and modes of operation of a typical microprocessor. Basic
I/O timing, control, and memories. Prerequisite: EL-204. (2-2-3)
EL-301 - Advanced Communications Circuits & Systems
A continuation in the study and analysis of communications circuits as they apply to
communications systems. Circuits such as voltage-controlled oscillators, modulators,
mixers, phase-locked loops, frequency synthesizers, passive and active filters are
analyzed and mathematically discussed. Students build and test their circuits.
Prerequisites: EL-250, EL-261 and MA-261. Offered during fall semester only. (2-2-3)

Noise types and specifications. Natural, man-made and intrinsic noise sources. Thermal,
shot, contact, popcorn and avalanche noise as related to electronic devices. Reactive
network effects on thermal noise. Signal-to-noise ratio, noise figure, noise factor,
noise temperature and noise bandwidth. Low noise design techniques, measurement
techniques for noise factor and noise bandwidth. Ground loops and how to eliminate
them. Grounding techniques, shielding, digital circuit radiation, electrostatic discharge,
and electromagnetic pulse. Prerequisites: EL-261. (2-2-3)
EL-400 - Special Projects in Technology
Guided Study. Project-oriented course. Students are expected to design and build
electronic systems in their specialization. Students will produce a final project including
a written report and an oral presentation. (0-6-3)
EL-452 - Automated Test Systems
Systems design course for automating the testing of electronic circuits and systems
in both the engineering and production environments; stresses both hardware design
and system software development. Begins with simple PC-based systems assembly
for circuit testing as part of the design process and progresses to the design and
development of full-scale systems for testing of large production volumes. Detailed
study of the operation of the IEEE STD-488 and its use in test systems assembly.

288 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

EL-307 - Noise and Shielding

Prerequisites: CS-130 or CS-150. Offered during spring semester only. (2-2-3)
EN-001 - Basic Writing Skills
Course in the basic skills of written expression, reading comprehension and vocabulary
building, which will enable the students to clearly present feelings, ideas and opinions. It
includes a review of spelling, punctuation, and word usage plus sentence construction
and other basic writing skills. Students will be expected to complete numerous short
writing assignments with an emphasis on paragraphs. Study skills are also stressed.
This course is required of all students whose test scores and writing samples indicate
the need. This course provides three semester credits but does not meet the AAS, BS
degree requirements for graduation. Grades given will be P-pass or R-repeat. (3-0-3)
EN-101 - English Communications I
This introductory college-level course focuses on effective oral and written
communication skills and the development of analytical abilities through various
reading and writing assignments. Students must demonstrate competence in writing
mechanics, including grammar, sentence structure, logical content development, and
research documentation through 4 essays/research papers. Rhetorical modes may
include description, comparison/contrast, narrative, and process analysis. Students
are expected to develop effective oral communication skills through speeches. Group
projects will develop effective team skills such as decision-making, time management,
and cooperation. Prerequisites: acceptance based on placement test scores (3-0-3)

This sequel to EN-101 involves more sophisticated reading, writing, speaking, and
research assignments. Students must demonstrate competence in writing mechanics,
as well as advanced research skills, the ability to handle complex information, and
effective team skills. Students write research papers: an information paper, a causeand-effect paper, an argument paper, and a final research paper. Course includes group
work. Presentations are required. Prerequisite: EN-101 (3-0-3)
ENI-101 - English Communications I- Intensive
This introductory college-level course focuses on effective oral and written
communication skills and the development of analytical abilities through various
reading and writing assignments. Students must be able to demonstrate competence
in writing mechanics, including grammar, structure and logical content development
when writing essays, summaries, and short reports. Rhetorical modes may include
description, compare/contrast, personal experience, definition, illustration and process
demonstration. Oral presentation skills are developed throughout the delivery of two
speeches on related topics. Prerequisite: acceptance based on placement test scores.
(3-0-3)

289 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

EN-102 - English Communications II

ENI-LAB - English Communications Intensive Lab
Based on placement test scores, students in this lab will focus on specific areas for
improvement including punctuation, grammar, verb formation and usage. Must be taken
with EN-001 and ENI 101, and can be taken with EN 101. (0-1-0)
EPS-800 - Emergency and Protective Services
The student will focus on studying the latest Emergency and Protective Services
implications of the rapid infusion of new technology in the workplace. The student will
synthesize the growing effect of technology on responder safety, response strategy,
tactics, responder long term physical and mental health, and potential employer
liabilities. The student will start identifying areas for extensive research and exploration.
Prerequisite: None. (6)
EPS-810 - Impending Environments in Emergency & Protective Services
The student will use a vetting process during research of new political, social, economic,
and technological innovations that may have an impact on emergency and protective
services. The student will build upon EPS-800 by refining and further developing their
research topic. (6)
EPS-820 - Advanced Research Methods for Emergency & Protective Services

EPS-830 - Comprehensive Strategies for Emergency & Protective Services
The student will thoroughly analyze comprehensive strategies for the Emergency
and Protective Services field. The student will synthesize the full range of strengths,
weaknesses, and gaps in the existing comprehensive strategies in the work
environment. The student will incorporate the findings into their research plan. (6)
EPS-840 - Emergency & Protective Services Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives,
milestones, and a timing plan. After the doctoral student’s Chair approves the proposal,
the student will then begin work according to the proposal and research plan. (6)
EPS-900 - Emergency & Protective Services Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. (6)
EPS-910 - Emergency & Protective Services Writing II

290 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

The Chair will guide the doctoral student through advanced research methods for
Emergency and Protective Services. The student will incorporate these skills in their
plan for doctoral research. (6)

The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 according to the approved proposal.
The student will also submit Chapters 1-3 to the Institutional Review Board (IRB) and
Academic Review Board (ARB). After receiving the necessary approvals, the student will
conduct data collection and analysis activities consistent with the research plan. (6)
EPS-920 - Emergency & Protective Services Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
EPS-930 - Emergency & Protective Services Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to the student’s
Chair and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their
research. The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete
document. The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document
to the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must
receive approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance
forward. (6)

Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee, and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
FCS-800 - Financial Cybersecurity Research Background
The student will focus on the study of the latest Financial Cybersecurity strategies,
tactics, and developments. The student will synthesize the growing effect of
Cybersecurity threats to financial operations, international relationships, and impact on
the financial field overall. The student will identify areas for improvements and failings.
The faculty will directly support and mentor the exploration phase of the planning. (6)
FCS-810 - Financial Cybersecurity Research Methods
Under a Chair and committee, a student will continue evaluating the Financial
Cybersecurity field. The student will also develop research methodologies and
strategies suitable for understanding Financial Cybersecurity. The student will address
the data sources, information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis or research question.
It is expected the student will be building upon FCS-800 in refining and developing their
research task and plan. (6)
FCS-820 - Financial Cybersecurity Future Demands
Under a Chair and committee, a student will further research the future demands in

291 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

EPS-940 - Emergency & Protective Services Doctoral Defense

the Financial Cybersecurity field and how these influence specific research questions.
Data collection and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Financial
Cybersecurity in the short, medium, and long term. The literature review will be more
specific in focus and direction at this stage. (6)
FCS-830 - Strategies for Financial Cybersecurity
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the Financial Cybersecurity field under the direction of their
Chair/committee. A firm direction and draft of a methodology will be taking shape and
direction. The topic will be reviewed to ensure the scope is not too broad. (6)
FCS-840 - Financial Cybersecurity Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives
and include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research
milestones according to the proposal and research plan. The IRB and ARB will need to
be completed by this stage. (6)
FCS-900 - Financial Cybersecurity Doc Writing I

FCS-910 - Financial Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 (methodology chapter that is robust
and identifies all implications) according to the approved proposal. After receiving the
necessary approvals, the student will conduct data collection and analysis activities
consistent with the research plan. (6)
FCS-920 - Financial Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
FCS-930 - Financial Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to their Chair
and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their research.
The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete document.
The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document to the
University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must receive
approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance forward. (6)

292 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. The material for these
chapters will have been established in the FCS 800 series. Any disagreement within the
committee will be reviewed by the Dean of Doctoral Programs. (6)

FCS-940 - Financial Cybersecurity Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
FM-120 - Introduction to Facilities Management
This course examines the scope of the professional facilities manager’s responsibilities.
The Facility Manager’s role in relation to an organization’s overall plan. An overview
is provided of the fundamental concepts in facilities management and a general
understanding of the responsibilities of the profession as to why it is valuable to facility
managers. The type of facilities associated with critical infrastructures will be covered.
An overview of concepts needed to organize, monitor, communicate and develop a good
facilities management program will be introduced. Pre-requisite: None (3-0-3)
FM-260 - Space Planning
The process of design, problem solving, and building management as it relates to the
use of interior space will be introduced. Projects involving issues pertaining to space
planning, regulatory codes, building systems, material use and construction methods
will be applied. Pre-requisite: FM-120 (3-0-3)

Methods, concepts and procedures of project management as it relates to facilities.
Scheduling, budgeting/estimating, contract administration, purchasing, relocations,
move management, and identifying a team to manage the facilities will be introduced.
Pre-requisite: CM-250 and FM-260 (3-0-3)
FM-330 - Building Operations II
This course provides an examination of how facilities, building operations, and
maintenance organizations are managed. An understanding of scheduling, equipment
evaluation, training and long-range planning of facilities is also involved. An in depth
look at the interdependent mechanical systems in a facility working together and
how all the elements of a facility work together to function for the best value to the
organization is involved. Prerequisite: CM-375 (3-0-3)
FM-350 - Facilities Assessment & Forecasting
This course emphasizes the strategic role required of the facilities manager in providing
information for corporate managers and executives for facility forecasting. Topics
include corporate real estate, attorney and developer interface, operating budgets and
capital expenditures, and building performance assessment. Pre-requisite: CM-125 and
FM-260 (3-0-3)

293 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

FM--301 - Facilities Project Management

FM-380 - Facilities Energy & Sustainability
An overview of how facilities, building operations, and maintenance organizations are
managed to understand energy creation, delivery and consumption. Topics include
sources, forms, and methods used to assess and manage energy use in buildings.
Current building energy management software is evaluated. Students will apply
concepts needed to successfully organize, monitor, communicate and develop a good
sustainability program. Pre-requisite: CM-220 and FM-260 (3-0-3)
FM-450 - Principles of Real Estate
Real estate concepts related to facilities are examined. Topics include real estate
financial management, site selection, master planning, leasing, purchase vs. lease,
property management and highest and best use analysis. Prerequisite: FM-350
FM-457 - Internship in Facilities Management
Successful completion of an approved internship is a graduation requirement. The
internship program complements classroom learning by exposing students to various
facilities management functions on real-life projects. Pre-requisite: Sophomore Status
FM-458 - Senior Design Project
Student proposes, designs, writes and presents a project manual for a successful
facilities manager managing a large facility that would be considered critical in the
event that it was not operating properly. Pre-requisite: Senior status

The student will focus on the study of the Facilities Management strategies, tactics, and
developments. The student will synthesize the growing effect of Facilities Management
on facilities operations, international relationships, and impact on the facilities field
overall. The student will identify areas for improvements and failings. The faculty will
directly support and mentor the exploration phase of the planning.
FM-810 - Facilities Management Research Methods
Management field. The student will also develop research methodologies and strategies
suitable for understanding Facilities Management with a global perspective. The
student will address the data sources, information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis
or research question. It is expected the student will be building upon FM-800 in refining
and developing their research task and plan. (6)
FM-820 - Facilities Management Future Demands
Under a Chair and committee, a student will further research the future demands in
the Facilities Management field and how these influence specific research questions.
Data collection and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Facilities
Management in the short, medium, and long term. The literature review will be more
specific in focus and direction at this stage. (6)
294 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

FM-800 - Facilities Management Research Background

FM-830 - Strategies for Facilities Management
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the Facilities Management field under the direction of their
Chair/committee. A firm direction and draft of a methodology will be taking shape and
direction. The topic will be reviewed to ensure the scope is not too broad. (6)
FM-840 - Facilities Management Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives
and include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research
milestones according to the proposal and research plan. The IRB and ARB will need to
be completed by this stage. (6)
FM-900 - Facilities Management Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. The material for these
chapters will have been established in the FM 800 series. Any disagreement within the
committee will be reviewed by the Dean of Doctoral Programs. (6)

The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 (methodology chapter that is robust
and identifies all implications) according to the approved proposal. After receiving the
necessary approvals, the student will conduct data collection and analysis activities
consistent with the research plan. (3)
FM-920 - Facilities Management Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
FM-930 - Facilities Management Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to their Chair
and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their research.
The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete document.
The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document to the
University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must receive
approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance forward. (6)
FM-940 - Facilities Management Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
295 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

FM-910 - Facilities Management Doctoral Writing II

Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
FS-100 - Freshman Seminar
Throughout this course students will learn skills to better prepare them for the rigors
and challenges of college. Students will learn and practice various proven techniques
and tools to help them be successful with college level work. Additionally, students
will explore the personal characteristics necessary for success, learn about the college
culture, and develop a support network. (2-0-1)
GDV-101 - Introduction to Games
If you have ever enjoyed the experience of playing a video game, you have had a firsthand lesson in how important content and systems design are. The experience of
a game is driven by four major components: content, systems, narrative, and user
experience. This class will help you learn to design all four components and build
a deeper understanding of the game development process and an introduction to
concepts in scripting. This online class has optional live sessions. Course offered
through LCMC Rize consortium partner - GDM1 (3-0-3)

This course grows students’ familiarity with the Unity engine and editor. Students will
explore a variety of concepts, tools, and frameworks, with the ultimate goal of building
the skills necessary to create a game in Unity. These topics will include interfaces,
environments, physics, animation, lighting and sound. This course was developed using
the Unity Curriculum Framework, and the IGDA 2020 guidelines. Students are expected
to have basic familiarity with principles of game design, and a working understanding of
the Unity level editor. Prerequisites: GDV-101 and CS-150. Course offered through LCMC
Rize consortium partner - GDM III (3-0-3)
GDV-410 - Unity II: Advanced Unity Programming
This course is intended to provide students with the skills and knowledge to bring their
mastery of the Unity game engine and C# programming up to a professional standard.
Students will learn how to perform a range of vital code-based tasks within the Unity
platform and will grow their skills in building core gameplay functionality, supporting
systems and platform-specific optimizations. This course was built in collaboration
with Unity. Upon successful completion, students will be prepared to sit for the Unity
Certified Programmer exam. Prerequisites: GDV-101, HU-210, GDV-230 and CS-150.
Course offered through LCMC Rize consortium partner - GDM V (3-0-3)
HCS-800 - Healthcare Cybersecurity Research Background
The student will focus on the study of the Healthcare Cybersecurity strategies, tactics,
and developments. The student will synthesize the growing effect of Cybersecurity
threats to healthcare operations, international relationships, and impact on the

296 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

GDV-230 - Unity I: Working with Unity

healthcare field overall. The student will identify areas for improvements and failings.
The faculty will directly support and mentor the exploration phase of the planning. (6)
HCS-810 - Healthcare Cybersecurity Research Methods
Under a Chair and committee, a student will continue evaluating the Healthcare
Cybersecurity field. The student will also develop research methodologies and
strategies suitable for understanding Healthcare Cybersecurity. The student will address
the data sources, information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis or research question.
It is expected the student will be building upon HCS-800 in refining and developing their
research task and plan. (6)
HCS-820 - Healthcare Cybersecurity Future Demands
Under a Chair and committee, a student will further research the future demands in the
Healthcare Cybersecurity field and how these influence specific research questions.
Data collection and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Healthcare
Cybersecurity in the short, medium, and long term. The literature review will be more
specific in focus and direction at this stage. (6)
HCS-830 - Strategies for Healthcare Cybersecurity

HCS-840 - Healthcare Cybersecurity Research Practical
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives
and include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research
milestones according to the proposal and research plan. The IRB and ARB will need to
be completed by this stage. (6)
HCS-900 - Healthcare Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. The material for these
chapters will have been established in the HCS 800 series. Any disagreement within the
committee will be reviewed by the Dean of Doctoral Programs. (6)
HCS-910 - Healthcare Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 (methodology chapter that is robust
and identifies all implications) according to the approved proposal. After receiving the
necessary approvals, the student will conduct data collection and analysis activities
consistent with the research plan. (6)

297 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the Healthcare Cybersecurity field under the direction of
their Chair/committee. A firm direction and draft of a methodology will be taking shape
and direction. The topic will be reviewed to ensure the scope is not too broad. (6)

HCS-920 - Healthcare Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
HCS-930 - Healthcare Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to their Chair
and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their research.
The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete document.
The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document to the
University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must receive
approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance forward. (6)
HCS-940 - Healthcare Cybersecurity Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)

The student will focus on the study of the latest Human Factors strategies, tactics
and developments. The student will synthesize the growing effect of technology on
current operations, international relationships and effects on the field, and where there
are areas of improvements or failings. The focus will be to start identifying areas for
research at a later stage and explore the background. (6)
HFE-810 - Human Factors Research Methodologies
The student will evaluate and develop research methodologies and strategies suitable
for understanding Human Factors and address the data sources, information, and
intelligence to test a hypothesis or research question. It is expected the student will be
building upon HFE-800 in refining and developing their research task and plan. (6)
HFE-820 - Human Factors Future Demands
The student will research the future demands of the Human Factors industry and how
these influence specific research questions. Data collection and applications will be
central to evaluating the needs of Human Factors on the short, medium and long term.
(6)
HFE-830 - Strategies for Human Factors
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the Human Factors industry. Students will analyze the
influences of economics, international politics, and sustainability that dictate planning
298 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

HFE-800 - Human Factors Research Background

based upon non-technical aspects. For example, how international disputes affect key
resources, costs, and schedules. (6)
HFE-840 - Human Factors Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives and
include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research milestones
according to the proposal and research plan. (6)
HFE-900 - Human Factors Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. (6)
HFE-910 - Human Factors Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 according to the approved proposal.
The student will also submit Chapters 1-3 to the Institutional Review Board (IRB) and
Academic Review Board (ARB). After receiving the necessary approvals, the student will
conduct data collection and analysis activities consistent with the research plan. (6)
HFE-920 - Human Factors Doctoral Writing III

HFE-930 - Human Factors Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to the student’s
Chair and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their
research. The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete
document. The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document
to the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must
receive approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance
forward. (6)
HFE-940 - Human Factors Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
HP-252 - Critical Issues in United States History I
This is a survey course designed to give students an overall view of the development

299 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)

of the United States from the time of its founding through the Civil War. This course is
directed toward the emergence of American political, economic, and social traditions
through critical analysis and student research. Prerequisite: EN-101. (3-0-3)
HP-253 - Critical Issues in United States History II
This is survey course designed to give students an overall view of the United States
from after the Civil War until recent history. This course is directed toward the
emergence of American political, economic, and social traditions through critical
analysis and student research. Prerequisite: EN-101. (3-0-3)
HP-255 - History of the African Diaspora
This course investigates the history and effects of the post-1450 diaspora of Africans
around the globe with attention given to the interactions of African Americans. Of
particular interest is how social, economic, and political institutions, geographical
factors, technology, and other cultural forces influenced and were influenced by African
contributions to the modern world at large. Prerequisite: EN-101 (3-0-3)

This course focuses on speaking, reading, writing, and comprehension of Modern
Standard Arabic. The course develops Arabic reading and writing skills. The course
introduces all 28 letters of the alphabet plus the 112 variations. Students learn
Arabic grammar and vocabulary usage. Students learn the morphology of verbs and
their grammatical constructions. There will be significant practice in pronunciation,
conversations, listening comprehension, sentence structures, and writing during class.
Prerequisite: None (3-0-3)
HU-131 - Chinese I
The course will cover an introduction to the Mandarin Chinese language, basic grammar,
Pinyin system, vocabulary, usage, and the Chinese writing system. It will also develop
an understanding of modern China and knowledge of the Chinese culture. There will be
significant practice in pronunciation, conversations, listening comprehension, sentence
structures, and writing during class. Prerequisite: None. (3-0-3)
HU-164 - Science Fiction
This course will examine science fiction from the early 20th century to the present, with
some attention to the cultural and historical issues that shaped its development. Special
attention will be placed on the role of science in science fiction. The relationships
between literature, film and television as expressions of science fiction will also be
studied. Prerequisite/Corequisite: EN-101. (3-0-3)
HU-165 - History Through Fiction
This course provides a broad survey of a selected historical period and compares/
contrasts fictional historical accounts with what is regarded as historical fact. Both

300 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

HU-121 - Arabic I

oral and written presentations are required of students. The selected time period and
associated literature is chosen by the professor and will vary over time. Students
will learn to distinguish between historical fact and fiction, as well as to apply critical
thinking toward identifying the fine lines that often exist between disparate accounts of
history. Prerequisite: EN-101. (3-0-3)
HU-205 - Twenty-first Century Mass Media
A broad survey of contemporary mass media such as film, radio and television with
particular attention paid to emerging media such as the internet, related technological
and commercial infrastructures, as well as the globalization of the new media.
Prerequisite: EN-101. (3-0-3)
HU-210 - Game Design and Theory
This course teaches how to design a standalone game that is balanced, playable
and has that intangible ‘fun’. Topics include history of games, player psychology,
mathematical game theory, topology, statistics, multiplayer interactions, and art and
aesthetics. We also cover the milestones needed to produce a game. Each student
will take their concept from idea to creating their choice of a tabletop game or a paper
prototype for a future marketable game. (3-0-3)
HU-215 - Professional Communications

HU-220 - Critical Thinking
This course explores the process of thinking critically and guides students in thinking
more clearly, insightfully and effectively. Concrete examples from personal experience
and contemporary issues help students develop the abilities to solve problems, analyze
arguments and issues, as well as make informed decisions in their academic career and
personal lives. Readings, structured writing assignments and ongoing discussions help
students develop sophisticated thinking abilities. Prerequisite: EN-102 (3-0-3)
HU-225 - Writing for the Internet
This course introduces students to writing for the Internet allowing more effective
online communication in such forums as blogs and websites. Students will learn how
to write in a more active voice, bringing more energy and vibrancy to their articles
and commentaries. Course material examines the workflow and demands of Internet
writing and publishing. Students will learn how to launch their own blog and develop
an audience as well as learn how to prepare articles for other blogs and web sites.
This course is designed for all students, regardless of their communication, writing, or
journalism experience. This is not a Web design course. Prerequisite: EN-101. (3-0-3)

301 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

This course examines the theory and practice of multiple communication channels
encountered in today’s professional environment. Topics include presentations, groups
and specialized writing formats. Corequisite: EN-101. (3-0-3)

HU-310 - Multi-Cultural Literature
This course surveys literature from a variety of cultures, both here in US and around the
world. Authors and works covered vary by semester. Prerequisite: EN-101. (3-0-3)
HU-331 - Arts and Ideas
This course enables students to study and appreciate various forms of art, including
painting, sculpture, architecture, music, drama, film, and literature through in-class and
on-site experiences. The arts are also surveyed from an historical perspective, focusing
primarily on eras in Western civilization. This enables students to sense the parallel
development of the arts, of philosophy, and of sociopolitical systems and to recognize
various ways of viewing reality. Prerequisite: EN-102. (3-0-3)
HU-332 - Arts & Ideas: Special Topics
This course has the same general requirements as HU-331, but the orientation of the
course will be on alternate traditions to the Western canon. Students will study various
forms of art, including painting, sculpture, architecture, music, drama, film, and literature
through in-class and on-site experience. Students will gain an appreciation for the
arts as they are represented by a particular culture or national identity. The course will
concentrate on how the arts are shaped by cultural/social forces that result in distinct
philosophies and ideologies. Prerequisite: EN-102. (3-0-3)

This course will examine science fiction and social commentary. Special attention
will be placed on critical analysis and discussion on the role of science fiction in
determining the impact of social growth and events in modern society. Prerequisite: EN102. (3-0-3)
HU-365 - Mystery Literature
This course will examine the genre of mystery literature from the early 20th century to
the present, with some attention to mystery writers prior to this time period who built
the foundation of the genre. Special attention will be given to the elements of a mystery
story, the characters and plot development of the “who done it” through reading of
popular authors as well as classical authors. Also, the class will look at the relationships
between mystery literature, film and television as literary art forms. Prerequisite: EN102. (3-0-3)
HU-371 - Film Appreciation
The course introduces the narrative and stylistic techniques used in filmmaking to
better understand how meaning is constructed, conveyed, and interpreted in film. In
a participatory lecture format and by viewing a wide variety of films, the student will
critically explore thought-provoking works and the creative approaches behind each
one to develop an informed perspective. Other key aspects of filmmaking including film
genres, film criticism, and mythic structures are explored. Prerequisite: EN-102. (3-0-3)

302 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

HU-364 - Science Fiction Literature

HU-400 - Humanities: Special Topics
This is a special topics course focused on research into the humanities. Students
primarily work in a guided study format with a mentor. Permission is required from the
instructor and academic dean. Prerequisite: EN-101. (3-0-3)
HU-402 - Classical Mythology
Students will examine gods, goddesses, and heroes of ancient Greece and Rome. A
comparison of myths from Greece and Rome with myths from other cultures will be
studied. Myths and other stories will be analyzed based on their relation to nature,
history, politics, and psychology. Students will apply myth interpretations to stories in
contemporary media. Prerequisite: EN-102. (3-0-3)
HU-403 - Engineering Poetry
In this course, poetry is explored through readings by engineers, mathematicians,
and others in STEM fields. Students will see how poetry expanded the technologists’
creative thought in both professional and personal ways. Students will hone their ability
to read and understand poetry, as well as have the chance to write some of their own.
Pre-requisite: EN-102 or permission of instructor. (3-0-3)

This course examines the transformative nature of 19th century literature from a
scientific perspective. Students will see how the industrial, scientific, and cultural
changes wrought by the Industrial Revolution and the rapid pace of scientific
breakthroughs of the century influenced the creative nature of literature at the time and
their effects today. Period short stories, novels and publications will be analyzed and
discussed. Individual and group written and oral assignments are required. Prerequisite:
EN-102 or permission of the instructor. (3-0-3)
HYG-800 - Industrial Hygiene Research Background
The student will focus on the study of the latest Industrial Hygiene strategies, tactics
and developments. The student will relate the subject to the operational, construction,
industry, domestic and all areas where risk is needed by law and ethically. The faculty
will directly support and mentor the exploration phase of the planning. (6)
HYG-810 - Industrial Hygiene Research Methods
Under a Chair and committee, a student will continue evaluating and develop research
methodologies and strategies suitable for understanding Industrial Hygiene and
address the data sources, information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis or research
question. It is expected the student will be building upon HYG-800 in refining and
developing their research task and plan. At this stage the focus of the industry and
scope needs defining. (6)

303 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

HU-404 - Science & Science Fiction-19th Century

HYG-820 - Industrial Hygiene Future Demands
Under a Chair and committee, a student will further research the future demands in
the Industrial Hygiene field and how these influence specific research questions. Data
collection and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Industrial Hygiene
on the short, medium and long term. The literature review will be more specific in
focus and direction at this stage. Students will review global implications of Industrial
Hygiene. (6)
HYG-830 - Strategies for Industrial Hygiene
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the Industrial Hygiene field under the direction of their
Chair/committee. A firm direction and draft of a methodology will be taking shape
and direction. The topic will be reviewed to ensure the scope is not too broad. The
methodology will be significant in defining success and will be comprehensive at this
stage. (6)
HYG-840 - Industrial Hygiene Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives
and include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research
milestones according to the proposal and research plan. The IRB and ARB will need to
be completed by this stage. (6)

The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. The material for these
chapters will have been established in the HYG 800 series. Any disagreement within the
committee will be reviewed by the Dean of Doctoral Programs. (6)
HYG-910 - Industrial Hygiene Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 (methodology chapter that is robust
and identifies all implications) according to the approved proposal. After receiving the
necessary approvals, the student will conduct data collection and analysis activities
consistent with the research plan. (6)
HYG-920 - Industrial Hygiene Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
HYG-930 - Industrial Hygiene Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to their Chair
304 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

HYG-900 - Industrial Hygiene Doctoral Writing I

and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their research.
The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete document.
The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document to the
University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must receive
approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance forward. (6)
HYG-940 - Industrial Hygiene Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
IAE-201 - Introduction to Information Assurance Concepts
This course covers topics related to administration of network security. Topics include
a survey of encryption and authentication algorithms; threats to security; operating
system security; IP security; user authentication schemes; web security; email security
protocols; intrusion detections; viruses; firewalls; Virtual Private Networks; network
management and security policies and procedures. Laboratory projects are assigned
as part of the homework requirements. Classes are a mixture of lecture, current event
discussions, and laboratory exercises. Prerequisites: MA-110 or MA-112 or MA-114 or
MA-261. (3-0-3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee of
$100.

Building on IAE-201, this course provides learners with detailed and hands-on
knowledge of computer and network security. The course emphasizes current
topics such as network security, compliance and operational security, threats and
vulnerabilities, application security, access control, as well as cryptography. Additionally,
underlying theory and concepts are presented in order to extend learners’ understanding
of computer and network security. Weekly laboratory exercises are utilized to reinforce
practical, real-world security techniques. Classes are a mixture of lecture, current event
discussions, and laboratory exercise review and will prepare learners for the CompTIA
Security+ certification. Pre-requisite: IAE-201 (3-0-3) *FORMERLY IAE-301 NOTE:
Students enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee of $100.
IAE-260 - Secure System Administration & Operations - UNIX
This course is an overview of securing the UNIX operating system. The content will
include a basic introduction of shell programming, process management, and processor
management, storage management, scheduling algorithms, resource protection and
system programming. The course will include programming projects focused on
Information Assurance problem solving utilizing the C programming language primarily.
Students are expected to be familiar with virtual machines, the UNIX command line
interface (CLI) and a basic programming language. Prerequisites: IAE-201, CS-150, and
305 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IAE-250 – Compr Computer & Network Security

CT-152. FORMERLY IAE-315 (3-0-3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this course incur an
additional lab fee of $100.
IAE-261 - Secure Systems Administration & Operation - Windows
This course is an overview of securing the Windows operating system. The content will
include a basic introduction of shell programming, process management, processor
management, storage management, scheduling algorithms, resource protection and
system programming. The course will include programming projects focused on
Information Assurance problem solving utilizing the C programming language primarily.
Students are expected to be familiar with virtual machines, the Windows command
line interface and a basic programming language. Basic knowledge of C programming,
scripting and Windows is helpful but not required. Prerequisites: IAE-201, CS-150 and
CT-152. (3-0-3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee of
$100.

This course prepares students to participate in national and international cyber
competitions. Two competition archetypes are explored in detail: Capture The Flag
(CTF) and Jeopardy. Students will gain practical experience in these competition
archetypes, as well as specific competition subtypes, through a rigorous schedule of
hands-on challenges, laboratory exercises, and full-scale competitions. This course
will explore strategies of game play within the competition archetypes, review the skills
necessary to compete in cyber competitions, as well as the cognitive science that
empowers competitions as learning devices. Individual classes will be a mixture of
lecture, laboratory exercises, as well as puzzle solving. The course will conclude with
students participating in a real cyber competition. Prerequisites: IAE-201 and IAE-250
(formerly IAE-301). (3-0-3)
IAE-311 - Mobile Computing Security
Emphasizing wireless computing security, this course addresses how to secure mobile
wireless computing devices and applications and wireless network security as it
impacts those portable computing devices. Wireless network security is discussed as it
pertains to decisions on which network security works best with particular applications
loaded into wireless computing devices. The course covers security of CMRS and PCS
(Cellular Mobile Radio Service and Personal Communications Service), CMRS and PCS
second, third and fourth generations (2G, 3G and 4G) , laptops equipped with Wireless
Network Interface Cards (WNICs), Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs), Bluetooth and
Zigbe devices and “Radio Frequency Identity (RFID) devices. Retail store security and
proximity payment application security are also discussed. Note: students are required
to purchase a mobile device specifically to fulfill course lab requirements. Prerequisite:
IAE-250. (2-2-3)
IAE-320 - Mobile Device Forensics
Mobile device forensics is a branch of digital forensics relating to recovery of digital
306 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IAE-310 - Strategies for Cyber Competition

evidence or data from a mobile device under forensically sound conditions. The scope
of devices can include mobile phones and any digital device that has both internal
memory and communication ability, including PDA and GPS devices and tablet
computers. This course focuses on the forensic study of mobile devices due to the
rapid proliferation of smartphones and applications such as contacts, photos, calendars
and notes, SMS and MMS messages, video, email, web browsing information, location
information, and social networking. This increased usage has also seen a marked
increase in cybercrime involving smartphones. Students will learn how to perform
the forensic examination of mobile devices using the most advanced tools available.
Note: Students are required to purchase a mobile device specifically to fulfill course
lab requirements. This course prepares students for the AccessData Mobile Phone
Examiner Plus (MPE+) Certification. Prerequisite: IAE 201 and 311. (3-0-3). Lab Fee
Required.

This course will explore the unique challenges presented by wireless networking,
including the management of dual network devices (Bluetooth, 3G, 4G, and WiFi).
Students will evaluate emerging business and technical initiatives, such as bring your
own device (BYOD) and securely implement mobile IP networks based on IPv4, IPv6
and the 3GPP. Students will learn penetration testing strategies to effectively evaluate
currently implemented security controls, utilizing cutting edge tools such as BackTrack
5, Vistumbler, Wireshark, and inSIDDer for network discovery and packet analysis.
Additionally, students will be exposed to the site survey, network management and
analysis capabilities of industry leading software such as Air Magnet, Ekahau and
OmniPeek. Students are required to purchase an Alfa wireless adapter and acquire a
wireless router for this class. This course prepares students for the Certified Wireless
Security Professional (CWSP) Certification. Pre-requisites: IAE-250 and CT-240. (3-0-3)
IAE-325 - Secure Data Communications & Cryptography
This course follows the protocol education provided in IAE-250 with a more detailed
and practical look at secure transactions and correspondence, as well as protection of
data in storage. Within the confines of the ISO-OSI model, this course discusses data
communication with emphasis on the security available at the layers, secure sockets
layer, and both wired and wireless security topics. One-way message digests/hashes
and encryption history and protocols are explored in-depth. Topics include virtual private
networks, one-way hashes/message digests, digital signatures, secret-key and public
key cryptography processes and algorithms. Prerequisite: IAE-250 and CT-152. (3-0-3)
NOTE: Students enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee of $100.
IAE-335 - Advanced Secure Data Communications
In today’s world it is nearly impossible to not be connected in one way shape or form to
the Internet. Students will be introduced to multiple methods of secure communication
using the Internet and how to minimize the impact of being tracked. In addition,
Students will be introduced to methods, tools, techniques, and tricks on how to remain

307 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IAE-321 - Applied Wireless Network Security

anonymous while using untrusted mediums such as the Internet. Students will learn
through lecture, labs, and real-world exercises. Prerequisite: IAE-301, IAE-325. (3-0-3)
Note: Students enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee of $100.
IAE-351 - Introduction to Cyberspace Operations
Full spectrum information superiority and dominance is key to influencing operations
associated with war or Military Operations Other Than War (MOOTW). This survey of
Computer Network Operations (CNO) introduces the concept of how Computer Network
Attack (CNA), Computer Network Defense (CND) and Computer Network Exploitation
(CNE) are leveraged to collect information, disrupt, deny, degrade or destroy the
information within computers and computer networks and/or the computers/networks
that host them. Strategic and operational considerations will be considered to affect an
adversary’s decision cycles with information superiority. Prerequisite: IAE-250 (3-0-3)
Note: Students enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee of $100.

Cryptography is indispensable for providing confidentiality of information in computer
systems. This course explains the inner workings of cryptographic primitives and
how to correctly use them. Students will learn how to reason about the security of
cryptographic constructions and how to apply this knowledge to real-world applications.
Students will examine many deployed protocols and analyze mistakes in existing
systems. The course discusses public-key techniques that let two or more parties
generate a shared secret key. Students will cover the relevant number theory and
discuss public-key encryption and basic key-exchange. Prerequisite: IAE-301, MA-114
(3-0-3)
IAE-390 - Penetration Testing
This course explores the foundational concepts, methods and techniques in preparing
and conducting penetration tests. Throughout the course students are introduced to
various tools as well as unravel complex methods for exploiting client-side, service side
and privilege escalation attacks. Most importantly students learn how to construct a
final report outlining discovered vulnerabilities, make suggested recommendations to
remediate and/or mitigate those vulnerabilities. Students also learn how to describe
the findings wherein non-technical personnel understand the ramifications of these
vulnerabilities in a business sense. This course prepares students for the EC Council
Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) certification. Prerequisites: CT-240 and IAE-260. (3-0-3)
*FORMERLY IAE-410 NOTE: Students enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee
of $100.
IAE-400 - Special Topics in Information Assurance
Research into information assurance subjects. Student primarily works in a guided
study format with a mentor. Permission required from the instructor and academic
dean. This course may be repeated with different projects. Prerequisite: Varies. (1-4)

308 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IAE-372 - Mathematics of Cryptography

IAE-402 - Intro to Incident Handling & Malicious Software
This course provides a detailed understanding of incidents from attacks of malicious
software. This course addresses the history and practice of coding that occurs in
viruses, worms, spyware, Trojan horses, remote management back doors and root kits.
Students learn preventative measures and tools and explore how to rid systems of
malicious software and prevent re-infection. Recovery processes and backup methods
are explored. In addition to covering basic incident handling preparation, response
and recovery practices, the course goes into detail regarding malicious software.
Prerequisite: IAE-260. (3-0-3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this course incur an additional
lab fee of $100.
IAE-405 - Malware Analysis/Reverse Engineering
This course introduces students to malware research and analysis. The course will
provide students an overview of malware research, intelligence gathering related
to malware, and provide students basic skills required to analyze and dis-assemble
malicious programs. Students will explore the tools required for analysis and reverse
engineering of malicious code, learn malware defense techniques, how malware
functions, and will perform live analysis and reverse engineering exercises. Prerequisite:
IAE-402 (3-0-3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee of
$100.

Students explore forensics and the investigation processes. Students explore current
computer forensics tools, conduct live computer forensic analysis, conduct e-mail
investigations, recovery of graphics files and data carving, and engage in report writing
for high-tech investigations. This course prepares students for the AccessData Certified
Examiner (ACE) and Mobile Phone Examiner Plus (MPE+) Certifications. Lab fee
required. Prerequisites: IAE-260 and IAE-402. (3-0-3). NOTE: Students enrolled in this
course incur an additional lab fee of $100.
IAE-412 - File System Analysis
This course explores the rudimentary foundations of data structures, encoding,
FAT16/32, exFAT, NTFS, EXT2/3/4, and UFS1/2 file systems as well as a look into
volume analysis, including multiple disk volumes and volume spanning. This course
also discusses the basic fundamentals of hard disk drives and solid state drives, their
components and their role in information systems. Prerequisites: MA-111 or MA-114
and IAE-315. (3-0-3)
IAE-430 - Intro to Industrial Control Systems Networks & Security
Industrial Control Systems (ICS) have been in existence for decades in the United
States. These systems are relatively unknown to the general public and control our
critical infrastructure, such as utilities (electricity, nuclear power, and water treatment
plants). Until recently, these systems were connected to company networks by privately

309 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IAE-406 – Digital Forensics and the Investigation Process

owned Information Technology (IT) networks based on private line technology.
Students will learn the elements of Operations Technology (OT) networks. Public utility
companies have begun to connect ICS networks to available systems such as the
Internet as they transition to TCP/IP based networks. This trend is accomplishing the
much-needed modernization of the nation’s IT and OT networks supporting the critical
infrastructure and setting the groundwork for developing the federally mandated Smart
Grid and other essential ICS. The US Government must address the increased risk of
ICS by partnering with private industry. Students will conduct hands-on lab exercises
focused on protecting these critical systems. Prerequisite: IAE-250. (3-0-3)
IAE-440 - Secure Access & Identity Management
Students will learn fundamental and advanced IdM (Identity Management) topics,
concepts and current issues. The course will prepare the students for real-world IdM
challenges faced by professionals in industry and government today. Students will
leave the course with an awareness and understanding of a variety of topics pertaining
to IdM, including broad technical aspects, legal and policy issues, implementation
scenarios, case studies and industry and government applications of IdM components.
Students will be provided hands on design, implementation and operations of ICAM
systems in a lab environment. Prerequisite: IAE-250. (3-0-3)

Students/teams select a project, develop an understanding of the project scope that
includes research and documentation of related work, prepare a feasibility study,
develop project requirements (constraints) and engineering, software, and/or security
specifications, propose solutions and multiple designs, analyze proposed designs,
select a final proposed design, and prepare and present a preliminary design review
(PDR). Students are expected to apply proper systems engineering and project
management to their work. Additional components may be required in some projects.
Students/teams submit a final report at the end of the semester. Pre-requisite: Senior
standing. (3-0-3)
IAE-458 - Senior Design Project II
Students/teams build and test their selected designs (completed in IAE-457). Each
student team delivers a tested prototype and defends its project in front of a panel of
experts. Students/teams submit a final report that includes description of the design,
realization, and test processes as well as test results, discussion, and conclusion.
Failure to deliver a completed design and a working prototype that meets engineering,
software, and/or security specifications by the end of the semester may result in failing
the course. *Note: Course must be completed with a grade of “C” or higher to meet
undergraduate graduation requirements. Prerequisite: IAE-457. (3-0-3)
IAE-470 - Controlled Unclassified Information
The Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) program protects sensitive federal
information while residing in nonfederal systems and organizations. It is of paramount
310 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IAE-457 - Senior Design Project I

importance to federal agencies and can directly impact the federal government’s ability
to carry out its designated missions and business operations. The guiding document
outlines 14 requirement families for the CUI program. The guidance applies to security
controls in various National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) controls
and the Department of Defense Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (CMMC)
Domains. Students will learn the requisite publications and guidance elements as
they apply to implementation by the federal government, state, local authorities, and
private industry. The course will provide the skills and tools to achieve results for CUI
effectively. Relevant Federal regulation, policies, guidance, and an in-depth look at the
risk management framework will be covered. Students will conduct hands-on exercises
as an introduction to the risk assessor specialty. (3-0-3)
IAE-480 - Perimeter Protection
In this Defense-in-Depth course, firewalls and network IDS issues will be discussed.
A detailed understanding of firewall configuration and rule sets, load balancing, web
farms, wireless access, web security issues and network intrusion detection will be
explored to prepare the student with the basic tools to coordinate the design and
implementation of perimeter network defenses for a high-volume, high-access site.
Prerequisite: IAE-402 and IAE-406 (3-0-3)

Modern organizations operate in a very dynamic and fast-moving environment which
requires collaboration with personnel both internally and externally via state of the art
communications systems and technologies. Operations Center (OC) can be chartered
for daily operations as well as response to specific crisis or situations. This course will
address the design and operation of an OC to include Mission, Network, Intelligence
and Security missions. This course is designed to address how such OCs are chartered,
designed, built, operated, and maintained. This course can be taught in multi-disciplinary
or departmental approach. The course is built upon a virtualized infrastructure which
provides a look at the systems, databases, applications, personnel, and procedures
required to perform the assigned mission. Tours of local OC will be scheduled and
students will conclude the course with a capstone exercise which they will plan and
execute. MOC/NOC/SOC. Prerequisite: IAE-201 (3-0-3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this
course incur an additional lab fee of $100.
IAE-500 - Introduction to Information Assurance
This course will provide the requisite computer, data communications, Internet and
database skills to students embarking on careers in information assurance, at the senior
levels. It is designed primarily for professionals who seek concentrated professional
education in one or more of the many fields associated with IA. Students who complete
this course successfully will be able to master the more technical application and
analysis skills demanded by the Master of Science in Cybersecurity degree program,
and the several certificate programs offered in various IA concentrations. Labs,
simulations and special problems will be used throughout the course. (3) NOTE:

311 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IAE-490 - Design & Management of Operations Centers

Students enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee of $100.
IAE-571 - Software Assurance Assessment
This course covers the fundamentals of establishing a required level of software and
system assurance, applying methods and determining measures to assess whether the
required level of assurance has been achieved. Topics include assessment methods;
defining product measures, process measures and other performance indicators;
measurement processes and frameworks; performance indicators for business
survivability and continuity; and comparing selected measures to determine whether the
software/system meets its required level of assurance. These fundamentals are applied
to newly developed software and systems as well as during the acquisition of software
and services. (3)
IAE-572 - Software Assurance Development
This course covers the fundamentals of incorporating assurance practices, methods,
and technologies into software development and acquisition life-cycle processes and
models. With this foundation, the course provides students with rigorous methods
for eliciting software and system assurance requirements, using threat identification,
characterization, and modeling; assurance risk assessment, and misuse/abuse cases.
Students will also learn how to evaluate methods and environments for creating
software and systems that meet their functionality and security requirements. (3)

This course covers the fundamentals of software and system assurance management,
including making the business case for assurance; planning and managing development
projects that include assurance practices; compliance with laws, regulations, standards,
and policies related to assurance; and risk assessment, identification, analysis,
mitigation, and monitoring for assurance. The focus is on how to manage business and
technical requirements. (3)
IAE-574 - Assured Software Analytics
This course covers methods for assuring the security and functionality of existing
software and services, whether legacy, internally developed, or externally acquired,
with emphasis on detection of vulnerabilities and malicious content. It also discusses
assurance considerations for system architectures, networks and databases in their
role as underlying enablers of software operations. Methods for structuring and reverse
engineering of existing software are covered, as are techniques for acquiring and
assuring software and services through suppliers, service-oriented architectures and
cloud computing environments. (3)
IAE-600 - Special Topics in Information Assurance
Research into information assurance subjects. Student primarily works in a guided
study format with a mentor. Permission required from the instructor and academic

312 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IAE-573 - Software Assurance Management

dean. This course may be repeated with different projects. (1-4)
IAE-605 – Master’s Research
This is part one of a two course sequence in research and writing. In part one, students
work to identify a research topic and, as initial research begins, they investigate
the requirements for maintaining a research journal, writing a research paper, and
presenting a research paper. Students may petition for a job-related substitute course.
(3)
IAE-610 - Advanced Penetration Testing
This course explores the foundational concepts, methods and techniques in preparing
and conducting penetration tests. Throughout the course you will be introduced to
various tools as well as unravel complex methods for exploiting client-side, service side
and privilege escalation attacks. Most importantly, you will learn how to construct a
final report outlining discovered vulnerabilities, make suggested recommendations to
remediate and/or mitigate those vulnerabilities. You will also learn how to describe the
findings in a way that non-technical personnel understand the ramifications of these
vulnerabilities in a business sense. Students in this course will conduct a final exercise
penetration testing networks created in the IAE-680 course. This course prepares
students for the EC Council Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) certification. Prerequisite: IAE
685 and CS-620 or waiver. (3)

Emphasizing wireless computing security, this course addresses how to secure mobile
wireless computing devices and applications, and wireless network security as it
impacts those portable computing devices. Wireless network security is discussed as it
pertains to decisions on which network security works best with particular applications
loaded into wireless computing devices. The course covers security of CMRS and PCS
(Cellular Mobile Radio Service and Personal Communications Service), CMRS and PCS
second, third and fourth generations (2G, 3G and 4G), laptops equipped with Wireless
Network Interface Cards (WNICs), Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs), Bluetooth and
Zigbe devices, and Radio Frequency Identity (RFID) devices. Retail store security and
proximity payment application security are also discussed. Prerequisite: IAE-685. (3)
NOTE: Students enrolled in this course may incur an additional lab fee of $100.
IAE-620 - Mobile Device Forensics
Mobile device forensics is a branch of digital forensics relating to recovery of digital
evidence or data from a mobile device under forensically sound conditions. This
course focuses on the forensic study of mobile devices due to the rapid proliferation
of smartphones and applications such as contacts, photos, calendars and notes, SMS
and MMS messages, video, email, web browsing information, location information,
and social networking. Students will learn how to perform the forensic examination of
mobile devices using both commercial and open source tools. Students will describe
and analyze effects of mobile device malware on forensic examinations Students in this
313 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IAE-611 - Mobile Computing Security

course will learn how to properly identify, preserve, analyze, examine data and report
on mobile device data. Prerequisite: IAE-685 (3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this course
incur an additional lab fee of $100.
IAE-621 - Applied Wireless Network Security
This course provides students with practical, real-world experience with an
understanding of wireless fundamentals, wireless network threats, tools to test wireless
security, and safeguards. Specifically, this course addresses the most popular hacking,
cracking and wireless security network analysis tools and trains students to use them
to test and secure wireless networks. Current industry best practices for managing
wireless networks in a secure environment are addressed. Students need access to
a second computer (for hacking) and will be required to purchase and install wireless
network equipment to create a home wireless network for the purpose of conducting
experiments on various wireless security vulnerabilities and countermeasures. NOTE:
students must have access to a computer network they personally own and can modify.
This course prepares students for the Certified Wireless Security Professional (CWSP)
Certification. Case studies will be used throughout the course. Students are required to
purchase an Alfa wireless adapter and acquire a wireless router. Prerequisite: IAE-675
(3)

Industrial Control Systems (ICS) have been in existence for decades in the United
States. These systems are relatively unknown to the general public and were designed
to control our critical infrastructure such as utilities (electricity, nuclear power, and
water treatment plants). Until recently, these systems were connected to company
networks by privately owned IT networks based on private line technology. Public utility
companies have begun to connect ICS networks to public networks such as the Internet
as they transition to TCP/IP based networks. This trend is accomplishing the muchneeded modernization of the nation’s IT networks supporting the critical infrastructure
and setting the groundwork for developing the federally mandated Smart Grid. The
ICS network transition to public networks has many benefits and risks. The increased
risk to the smart grid must be addressed by the USG partnering with private industry.
Prerequisite: IAE 685 (3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this course may incur an additional
lab fee of $100.
IAE-640 - Access & Identity Management
Students will learn fundamental and advanced IdM (Identity Management) topics,
concepts, and current issues. The course will prepare the students for real-world IdM
challenges faced by professionals in industry and government today. Students will
leave the course with an awareness and understanding of a variety of topics pertaining
to IdM, including broad technical aspects, legal and policy issues, implementation
scenarios, case studies, and industry and government applications of IdM components.
Prerequisite: IAE 685 (3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this course may incur an additional

314 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IAE-630 - Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition Networks & Industrial Control
System Security

lab fee of $100.
IAE-651 - Intro to Cyberspace Operations
Full spectrum information superiority and dominance is key to influencing operations
associated with war or Military Operations Other Than War (MOOTW). This survey of
Computer Network Operations (CNO) introduces the concept of how Computer Network
Attack (CNA), Computer Network Defense (CND), and Computer Network Exploitation
(CNE) are leveraged to collect information, disrupt, deny, degrade, or destroy the
information within computers and computer networks and/or the computers/networks
that host them. Strategic and operational considerations will be considered to affect an
adversary’s decision cycles with information superiority. Prerequisites: None. (3) NOTE:
Students enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee of $100.
IAE-652 - Identity Management
Students will learn fundamental and advanced IdM (Identity Management) topics,
concepts, and current issues. The course will prepare the students for real-world IdM
challenges faced by professionals in industry and government today. Students will
leave the course with an awareness and understanding of a variety of topics pertaining
to IdM, including broad technical aspects, legal and policy issues, implementation
scenarios, case studies, and industry and government applications of IdM components.
(3)

This course explores security terms, definitions, concepts, and issues that face
industries today. This course also will examine how the concept of security, and
being secure, integrates into the overall enterprise mission. The importance of user
involvement, security training, ethics, trust, and informed management will be explored.
(3)
IAE-671 - Legal Aspects Computer Security & Information Privacy
This course provides an overview of the legal rights and liabilities associated with
operation and use of computers and information, including the legal and regulatory
compliance issues critical for chief information security officers. It discusses the key
statutes, regulations, treaties, and court cases (in the United States and abroad) that
establish legal rights and responsibilities as to computer security and information
privacy. The course also helps students to learn how to reduce their risk of potential
legal liability for computer security or information privacy failures, and how to enforce
their security and privacy rights against other parties. Case studies and lessons learned
from information security failures are used throughout the course. (3)
IAE-672 - Cryptography
Cryptography is indispensable for providing confidentiality of information in computer
systems. This course explains the inner workings of cryptographic primitives and

315 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IAE-670 - Network Systems Security Concepts

how to correctly use them. Students will learn how to reason about the security of
cryptographic constructions and how to apply this knowledge to real-world applications.
Students will examine many deployed protocols and analyze mistakes in existing
systems. The course discusses public-key techniques that let two or more parties
generate a shared secret key. Students will cover the relevant number theory and
discuss public-key encryption and basic key-exchange. Students are expected to have
knowledge of Calculus I and a scripting language such as python. Prerequisite: IAE-685
and CS-620 or permission of department chair. (3)
IAE-673 - Secure Information Transfer & Storage
This course provides the student a history of cryptography from Caesar’s cipher to
elliptic-curve cryptography of today. Students study public and private key algorithms
and understand their functionality, and how they work with network protocols. One-way
hashes and digital signatures are discussed and used by the students in submissions
to the instructor. Public-key infrastructure with certificate authorities and web-of-trust
infrastructure methods is addressed. It is recommended that students complete IAE685 before taking this course, but this is not a requirement. (3) NOTE: Students enrolled
in this course incur an additional lab fee of $100.

This course begins with an understanding of why risk management evaluations are
useful. The general methodologies for security risk assessment and security test
and evaluation, including the interviews are discussed and documentation research
necessary, the student is provided practical lab exercises to provide a hands-on analysis
of a fictitious site. Detection, recovery, and damage control methods in contingency/
disaster recovery planning research, documentation and training; methods of and
procedures for contingency planning and security policy formulation and enforcement.
(3)
IAE-675 - Computer Forensics & Incident Handling
This course begins with lectures discussing the laws and rights to privacy by individuals
and what organizations may or may not do. Online ethics are considered. It then
moves on to understanding incident handling and how incident response teams work,
managing trouble tickets, and basic analysis of events to determine if an incident has
occurred. It concludes with computer forensics issues and practices, and rules of
evidence. This course prepares students for the AccessData Certified Examiner (ACE)
and Mobile Phone Examiner Plus (MPE+) Certifications. Prerequisite: IAE-685 and CS620 or waiver. (3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee of
$100.
IAE-677 - Malicious Software
This course examines malicious software detection and malicious software defenses
including tripwire and signature software techniques. Viruses, worms and Trojan horses,
logic bombs and malicious CGI scripts will be discussed. Students will review the
316 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IAE-674 - Security Risk Management Capstone

anatomy of well-known viruses and worms to understand how they work. Mobile code
issues as they apply to web and application technologies and resulting insecurities will
be discussed in detail. Students will then review the underlying methodologies used by
the anti-virus vendors and freeware offerings to protect electronic assets from harm or
other compromise. Prerequisite CS-620 or waiver. (3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this
course incur an additional lab fee of $100.
IAE-679 - Vulnerability Mitigation
This “Defense-in-Depth” course provides the student detailed understanding of the need
for internal and external vulnerability assessment. An integral technical part of any risk
management program, this course goes hand-in-hand with the more analytical practices
in IAE-674. Prerequisite CS-620 or waiver. Co-requisites: IAE-685. (3) NOTE: Students
enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee of $100.
IAE-680 - Perimeter Protection
In this “defense-in-depth” course, firewalls and network IDS issues are discussed. A
detailed understanding of firewall configuration and rule sets, load balancing, web
farms, wireless access, web security issues and network intrusion detection is explored
to prepare the student with the basic tools to coordinate the design and implementation
of perimeter network defenses for a high volume, high access site. Prerequisite:
Completion of at least 24 credit hours in IAE coursework. This class is best completed
in the last term. (3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee of
$100.

This course explores the protections available to the practitioner through host operating
systems and third-party equipment and software, to protect the inner network from
the attacker who has successfully circumvented the perimeter or from the disgruntled
insider. Use of methodologies including host-based intrusion detection methods, audit
settings and review PC Firewalls, host operating hardening for Linux and Windows
operating systems, and Virtual LANs will be reviewed. It is recommended that students
complete IAE-685 before taking this course, but this is not a requirement. (3) NOTE:
Students enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee of $100.
IAE-684 - Complementary Security (CISSP)
Complementary Security is best defined as taking holistic, defense-in-depth approach
to designing a complete Information Security Program. In the course, students will learn
how individual domains of security from the (ISC)2 CISSP Common Book of Knowledge
work together to properly address cyber risks within an organization. At the end of the
course, students will be able to: (a) utilize industry best practices and frameworks to
design a complete and customizable Information Security Program for any organization;
(b) understand how to manage the program from an executive (CISO) level; (c) and have
the knowledge necessary to take the CISSP exam. Prerequisite: IAE-685 (3)

317 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IAE-682 - Internal Protection

IAE-685 - Principles of Cyber Security
This class explores the overarching security architectures and vectors of information
assurance from a management perspective to allow the learner to formulate the basis
for sound business decisions. Students gain an appreciation for systems, networks,
processes, methodologies, documentation requirements, recovery processes,
certification and accreditation processes as well as “best practice” implementation,
training and continuous improvement. Discussions in this course give the correct
acumen of personnel security, physical security, and technical operational security as
these principles relate and interface with information security principles. Defense-indepth principles also are covered for designing proper physical security programs. At
the completion of the course students should be able to manage an IA function and
evaluate an organization’s Contingency Planning process for adequacy. (3).

This class explores the overarching security architectures and vectors of
information assurance from a management perspective. The course will provide a
basic understanding of all aspects involving IA management, needs analysis, risk
assessments, policy formulation, security planning, and integrating technologies.
Students will gain an appreciation for systems, networks, processes, methodologies,
documentation requirements, recovery processes, certification and accreditation
processes as well as “best practice” implementation, training and continuous
improvement. Discussions in this course will give the correct acumen of personnel
security, physical security, and technical operational security as these principles relate
and interface with information security principles. Defense-in-depth principles will also
be covered for designing proper physical security programs. Prerequisites: IAE 685. IAE
682 recommended. (3)
IAE-690 - Healthcare Information System Security
This course addresses healthcare Information Security within the framework of the
guiding principles of Information Assurance (confidentiality, integrity, and availability).
This course covers the security and privacy controls covering healthcare information
systems, preventing loss and unauthorized access to healthcare information within
information systems, and protecting the integrity of healthcare data (data-at-rest, and
data-in-transit) within information systems. The student will gain and understanding
of the mandated regulatory, legal, and governance requirements covering privacy and
confidentiality of healthcare information. The student will also be able to identify and
manage risks and conduct Information Risk Assessments pertaining to healthcare
information. Prerequisite: IAE 685 or permission. (3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this
course incur an additional lab fee of $100.
IAE-692 - Mobile Medical Device/Application Security
This course goes into the details of the information security risks accompanying the
widespread use of mobile devices and mobile apps in the healthcare community. The

318 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IAE-686 - Managing Information Security

student will gain an overall understanding of the inherent security risks associated with
patient information medical apps and devices, how to protect healthcare information
on mobile devices, including identifying vulnerabilities, associated threats, risks, how
to mitigate against those risks; and the regulatory guidelines governing and health and
safety risks associated with mobile medical apps and devices, along with the privacy
impacts. Prerequisite: IAE 685 (3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this course incur an
additional lab fee of $100.
IAE-705 – Master’s Capstone
The course is in graduate seminar format. Students integrate prior course work and
personal experiences into researching an approved topic to produce a project-based
paper. Students may petition for a job-related substitute course. (3)
IAE-825 - Applied Research in Information Assurance
This course prepares students to select topics and conduct successful research in
information assurance’s many fields. Topics include research such as the Computer
Fraud and Abuse Act, the Electronic Communication Privacy Act and the National
Research Act. Special considerations governing research using human subjects will be
given in-depth treatment. The productive and legally sufficient use of the Department of
Homeland Security’s new Protected Repository for the Defense of Infrastructure against
Cyber Threats (PREDICT) program will be discussed. (3)

Learners examine literature and research in the information assurance field. Literature
will be examined in the context of both the historical and current environment.
Prerequisite: RSC-802. (3)
IAE-880 - Special Topics in Information Assurance
This course provides students the opportunity to examine in-depth issues relevant to
information assurance. This course may result in a publishable paper in the IA field. (3)
IAE-881 - Special Topics II in Information Assurance
This course provides students the opportunity to examine in-depth issues relevant to
information assurance. This course may result in a publishable paper in the IA field. (3)
IAE-882 - Special Topics III in Information Assurance
This course provides students the opportunity to examine in-depth issues relevant to
information assurance. This course may result in a publishable paper in the IA field. (3)
IAE-883 - Special Topics IV in Information Assurance
This course provides students the opportunity to examine in-depth issues relevant to
information assurance. This course may result in a publishable paper in the IA field. (3)

319 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IAE-830 - Information Assurance Research Literature

IAE-884 - Special Topics V in Information Assurance
This course provides students the opportunity to examine in-depth issues relevant to
information assurance. Students must request a faculty member who is a topic specific
expert to facilitate the course. This course may result in a publishable paper in the IA
field. (3)
IE-701 - Principles of Design Engineering Computer Networks
Networking and the Internet have introduced us to a new set of devices and protocols
that link personal computers to servers, and servers to servers. This course explores all
the hardware and software that drives local and Internet computing. Special emphasis
on connectivity and throughput is explored. (3)
IE-703 - Thin & Fat Client Deployment w/SOA
Client/Server has been extended to multi-tiered environments, distributed
communications via CORBA,COM/DCOM, service-oriented architecture (SOA) and Cloud
computing models. To examine this shift and to understand the technologies involved,
this course focuses on how these models are used to enable thin-and fat-clients as
well as Web-based clients on desktops, servers and PDAs. This class will examine the
mechanisms employed to bring legacy as well as modern computing to the information
economy. (3)

This course explores the operating software underlying Internet and intranet computing.
The similarities and differences between operating systems and web servers are
investigated with a view to choosing the best technology and optimization practices.
Topics include NT, 2000 Server, Advanced Server, Windows CE, Unix and versions, Linux,
IIS, Apache, third party, and public domain. (3)
IE-707 - Network Architecture Convergence Using Wireless
This course investigates the techniques used by successful network engineers to create
converged network architectures and provide optimum information access to their
users. The course will provide an in-depth study of the current and contemplated mobile
technologies that can facilitate network convergence. Students will test these mobile
technologies and their applications via the virtual laboratory concept using OpNet, the
most advanced network modeling software currently available. Technical information
on specific equipment and software will be provided as instruction supplemental to the
textbook, and case studies will be used throughout the course. (3)
IE-709 - Computer Object-Oriented Script Language
For the first time in two decades, software developers now have to be proficient in
multiple programming languages to deploy thin client or fat client Internet-based
applications. Choosing the right set of languages has a dramatic impact on application
performance and e-commerce. This course is designed to compare and contrast the

320 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IE-705 - Comparison of Operating Systems & Web Servers

various language tools for crafting Internet-based and Web-based applications. (3)
IE-712 - Design of Cloud Networks & Services
This course will help students understand the design and architecture of networks
and network services that enable the delivery of business-grade cloud services.
Students will understand how virtualized data-center infrastructure lays the groundwork
for cloud-based services, automated self-service portals, how to classify cloud
services and deployment models, and understand the actors in the cloud ecosystem.
Students will review the elements, requirements, challenges, and opportunities
associated with network services in the cloud, optimize data centers via network
segmentation, virtualization-aware networks, virtual network services, and service
overlays, and systematically secure cloud services. Students will learn about the
crucial role of organizations such as Federal Risk and Authorization Management
Program (FedRAMP), National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Cloud
Security Alliance (CSA), and the International Standards Organization (ISO) in creating
standards. Students will be challenged with cutting-edge, hands-on labs from leading
cloud vendors and a major cloud project. Students will also learn about containerization
and micro services. This course is appropriate for Computer Science, Engineering and
Cyber Security majors. Also crosslisted as CS-412/713. listed as Prerequisite: instructor
permission. (3)

The Internet and increased bandwidth management technologies has brought us a
new venue to communicate with each other in either full duplex, half-duplex, or simplex
modalities. Dot Com companies present us with radio stations, on demand streaming
audio and video, and live casting of audio and video. To understand the integration,
deployment, and optimization of these technologies, this course compares technical
aspects, market positioning, and strengths and weaknesses of various media products
in the market. (3)
IE-715 - Identifying & Integrating Computer Collaborated Technology
Software and hardware companies have utilized a component approach to
product development in order to address the requirement that Internet and Intranet
communications applications operate in a on-demand mode. This is the technical
underpinning of the “anywhere, any time” mantra of the Internet. However, these
components do not always integrate easily. This course identifies the various
component technologies, standards, and issues with integration to provide on-demand
communication capabilities. (3)
IE-717 - Invent & Use Intellectual Property
The Internet’s ability to share ideas between millions of people instantaneously, and
the ability of Internet users to improve upon those ideas and share them with everyone
on the Internet instantaneously, has challenged intellectual property’s status quo. This
course examines the legal and regulatory limits of an e-business’s ability to exploit
321 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IE-713 - Multimedia & Web Casting

intellectual value in the new paradigm. In addition, the latest changes to intellectual
property law and regulation as a result of Internet commerce will be examined. (3)
IE-719 - Capstone Course
The capstone course is in graduate seminar format. Students will integrate the prior
course work and personal experiences into a major paper or a project. (3)
IE-730 - Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition Networks & Industrial Control
Systems
Industrial Control Systems (ICS) have been in existence for decades in the United
States. These systems are relatively unknown to the general public and were designed
to control our critical infrastructure such as utilities (electricity, nuclear power, and water
treatment plant). Until recently, these systems were connected to company networks by
privately owned IT networks based on private line technology. Public utility companies
have begun to connect ICS networks to public networks such as the Internet as they
transition to TCP/IP based networks. This trend is accomplishing the much-needed
modernization of the nation’s IT networks supporting the critical infrastructure and
setting the groundwork for developing the federally mandated Smart Grid. The ICS
network transition to public networks has many benefits and risks. SCADA software
runs chemical plants and factories, transmission systems and electric power plants.
Prerequisite: IE-701 (3)

The student will focus on the study of the latest Intelligence and Global Security
strategies, tactics and developments. The student will synthesize the growing effect of
Intelligence and Global Security on current operations, international relationships and
effects on the field, and where there are areas of improvements or failings. The focus
will be to start identifying areas for research at a later stage and explore the background
of Intelligence and Global Security. The faculty will directly support and mentor the
exploration phase of the planning. Prerequisite: None.
IGS-810 - Intelligence and Global Security Research Methods
Under a Chair and committee, a student will continue evaluating and develop research
methodologies and strategies suitable for understanding Intelligence and Global
Security and address the data sources, information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis
or research question. It is expected the student will be building upon IGS-800 in refining
and developing their research task and plan.
IGS-820 - Intelligence and Global Security Future Demands
Under a Chair and committee, a student will research the future demands in the
Intelligence and Global Security field and how these influence specific research
questions. Data collection and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of
Intelligence and Global Security programs on the short, medium and long term. The

322 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IGS-800 - Intelligence and Global Security Research Background

literature review will be more specific in focus and direction at this stage.
IGS-830 - Strategies for Intelligence and Global Security
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the Intelligence and Global Security field under the direction
of their Chair/committee.
IGS-840 - Intelligence and Global Security Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives
and include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research
milestones according to the proposal and research plan. The IRB and ARB will need to
be completed at this stage.
IGS-900 - Intelligence and Global Security Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. Any disagreement within
the committee will be reviewed by the Dean of Doctoral Programs.

The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 (methodology chapter that is robust
and identifies all implications) according to the approved proposal. After receiving the
necessary approvals, the student will conduct data collection and analysis activities
consistent with the research plan.
IGS-920 - Intelligence and Global Security Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance.
IGS-930 – Intelligence and Global Security Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to the student’s
Chair and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their
research. The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete
document. The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document
to the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must
receive approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance
forward.
IGS-940 – Intelligence and Global Security Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend

323 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

IGS-910 - Intelligence and Global Security Doctoral Writing II

the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research.
INT-101 – Introduction to Global Security & Intelligence Studies
This course introduces the areas of Global Security and Intelligence Studies. The
course focuses on the areas of intelligence and intelligence collection. In this
course, students will learn the role, purpose, and history of intelligence as well as
U.S. congressional oversight. The course will also introduce students to modern U.S.
foreign policy, intelligence collections and analysis, security of facilities, personnel
security, law enforcement, and forensic science. The course will explore the importance
of technology and non-technological methods in global security and intelligence.
Prerequisite: None. (3-0-3)

This course provides an introduction to the study of intelligence and international
security by training students in intelligence analysis to enable them to write
briefing and analytic products that are used in the analysis of international security,
counterterrorism, and homeland security studies. Such an integrated analytic approach
is required because of the integrated nature of international security, counterterrorism,
and homeland security. The analytic methodologies taught will draw on the concepts
of risk-based security management approaches. Students will also explore the national
strategies and programs developed by the United States and its allies to deal with ongoing threats at the international, national, and local levels, including how to balance
the need for security and maintenance of civil liberties. Students will apply the course’s
analytic intelligence methodologies to examine selected case studies. (3)
INT-510 - Theories of Global Security
The course covers significant theories of global security that help to explain the
different ways governments, international organizations, and private sector NGOs
address the global security challenges facing their roles in the international system.
For the purpose of this course, three major theories are featured: realism, liberalism,
and Marxism. Other significant theories will be covered, as well, such as why and how
nations go to war and how wars end, theories of conflict resolution, and others. Case
studies will be utilized to apply these and other theories to real world examples.
INT-520 - Components of National Power
The course covers significant components in how nations interact in global security.
These include the components of national power (military, political, economic, etc.),
foreign policy and national security, homeland security, global security risks and
challenges. Specifically, the course will examine how foreign policy is implemented
through departments such as foreign affairs, defense, treasury, commerce, etc., and
measures to implement it such as diplomacy, military/defense, intelligence, foreign
324 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

INT-501 – Introduction to International Security, Counterterrorism & Homeland Security
Intelligence

aid, economic trade, sanctions, global environmental policy, etc. Assessing measures
of effectiveness in the components of national power will be discussed, as well. Case
studies will be used to illustrate the course’s topics.
INT-600 - Intelligence Com. Int Proc Int Analytic
The course provides an overview of significant software tools that are used in
intelligence analysis of global security. These software tools include applications such
as social network analysis (SNA), root cause analysis (RCA), alternative competing
hypotheses (ACH), data mining, Excel, project management, risk management, and
others. Students will be trained to apply such software tools in case study projects.
INT-700 - Seminar in Intelligence and Global Security I
In the seminar (also known as a Capstone Course), students will be assigned to produce
two seminar papers. In the first, they will apply a structured intelligence methodology
to analyze a case study, and in the second, they will apply a software tool to visualize
and analyze another case study. Both seminar papers will be presented to the class for
further discussion.
INT-710 – Seminar in Intelligence and Global Security II
In this Capstone Practicum, the students will apply one or more of the courses’
structured analytic methodologies and software tools to produce a research paper, that
will be comparable to a master’s thesis.

Designed for students needing math skills for MA-110, MA-112 and MA-114. Topics
include operations on signed numbers and fractions, products and factoring, exponents
and roots, graphs, and solutions of first degree and quadratic equations. Credits from
this course are not applicable toward a degree. (3-0-3)
MA-110 - Business Management Math I
A general introduction to the mathematics used in the U.S. business. Focus is on
developing the mathematical and critical thinking skills needed to solve math problems
encountered in typical business situations. This course will help prepare the student
for courses in Statistics and Accounting. Topics include 1) the essentials of business
mathematics; and 2) accounting mathematics. Prerequisite: placement test score. (3-03)
MA-111 - Business Management Math II
A continued introduction to the mathematics used in U.S. business. Builds on the
mathematical and critical thinking skills developed in MA-110 to address the topics of
1) retail mathematics and 2) introductory financial mathematics. This course will help
prepare the student for courses in Marketing and Finance. (3-0-3)

325 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

MA-005 - Basic Mathematics

MA-112 - Intermediate Algebra
Designed for students needing mathematical skills and concepts for MA-114 and MA261. In this course students are introduced to equations and inequalities and learn the
language of algebra and related functions, including polynomial, rational, exponential
and logarithmic functions. Other topics include solving equations, inequalities and
systems of linear equations; performing operations with real numbers, complex
numbers and functions; constructing and analyzing graphs of functions; and using
mathematical modeling to solve application problems. Prerequisite: MA-005 or
placement test score. (3-0-3)
MA-114 - Algebra and Trigonometry
Designed for students needing mathematical skills and concepts for MA-261. Topics
in this course are as follows. Algebra: basic operations on real and complex numbers,
fractions, exponents and radicals. Determinates: Solution of linear, fractional, quadratic
and system equations. Trigonometry: definition and identities, angular measurements,
solving triangles, vectors, graphs and logarithms. Prerequisite: MA-112 or placement
test score. (4-0-4)
MA-124 - Discrete Mathematics

MA-128 - Introduction to Statistics
This course addresses probability: definitions, theorems, permutations and
combinations; binomial, hypergeometric, Poisson and normal distributions; sampling
distribution and central limit theorem; and estimation and hypothesis testing.
Prerequisite: MA-110, MA-111 or MA-112. (3-0-3)
MA-230 - Introduction to MATLAB
Introduction to MATLAB is a short course covering its basic operations and features,
intended for students with little or no experience with the Software. We will work
through applications in engineering, physics and mathematics, and provide a grounding
for developing tools for students own projects. Topics include import/export data,
create and manipulate variables, program and run scripts (M-files), use graphics tools
to display data, and use the built in help features. Prerequisites: CT-115. MA-114
Corequisites: MA-261, PH-261/201. (3-0-3)
MA-261 - Calculus I
This course covers lines, circles, ellipses; functions and limits, differentiation, power
rule, higher-order derivatives, product, quotient and chain rules, implicit differentiation,
and applications. Regarding integration, it addresses definite integrals; indeterminate

326 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

This course focuses on logic sets and sequences; algorithms, divisibility, and matrices;
proof, induction, and recursion; counting methods and probability; relations, closure and
equivalence relations, graphs and trees; and Boolean algebra. Prerequisite: MA-112, MA114 or placement test score. (3-0-3)

forms; exponential, logarithmic, trigonometric and hyperbolic functions; differentiation
and integration, and graphing. Prerequisite: MA-114. (4-0-4)
MA-262 - Calculus II
This course centers on methods of integration, including completing the square,
substitution, partial fractions, integration by parts, trigonometric integrals, power series,
and parametric equations. It also addresses partial derivatives, directional derivatives,
and an introduction to multiple integrals. Prerequisite: MA-261. (4-0-4)
MA-263 - Calculus III
This course focuses on multivariable and vector calculus; integrals in two- and threedimensional coordinate systems; cylindrical and spherical coordinates; vector functions
and their derivatives; gradients, divergence, and curl; and Stokes theorem, Green’s
theorem, and Gausses theorem. Prerequisite: MA-262. (4-0-4)
MA-300 - Mathematical Methods for Engineering
This course provides a basic understanding of MATLAB software for engineering, such
as the basic matrix, matrix manipulation, college algebra and trigonometric concepts. In
addition, MATLAB techniques for solving problems by means of calculus and differential
equations are introduced. Successful completion of this course will enable students
to begin the study of more advanced topics such as the statics and dynamics classes
taken by most engineering majors. Prerequisites: MA-261 and MA-230. (3-0-3)

This course gives an introduction to the mathematics of cryptography. A survey of
cryptography from Roman times up to today’s current techniques. Cryptographic
content for the course includes classical ciphers and their decryption (shift, affine and
Vigenere ciphers), key exchange protocols (main example: Diffie-Hellman), public key
ciphers (main example: RSA), block ciphers, modes of operation, hash functions and
digital signatures. Mathematical formulations of security goals will be discussed as a
method for determining weaknesses in designs. Prerequisites: MA-124 and CS-130 or
CS-150. (3-0-3)
MA-330 - Linear Algebra
This course introduces the study of linear systems of equations, vector spaces, and
linear transformations. Students will solve systems of linear equations as a basic tool
in many mathematical procedures used in science and engineering. Topics include
solving linear equations, performing matrix algebra, calculating determinants, finding
eigenvalues and eigenvectors and developing an understanding of a matrix as a linear
transformation relative to a basis of a vector space. Prerequisite: MA-262. (3-0-3)
MA-340 - Ordinary Differential Equations
This course addresses methods for solving first order equations with applications to

327 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

MA-325 - Mathematics of Cryptography

mechanics and rate problems. It also covers solutions of second order equations by
undetermined coefficients and variations of parameters. Applications to circuits are
also included as well as an introduction to systems of equations and operational and
numerical methods. Prerequisite: MA-262. (3-0-3)
MA-345 - Probability & Statistics Engineers
This course focuses on sets and methods of counting, as well as probability density
functions, expected values, and correlations. Forms of distribution addressed included
binomial, Poisson, exponential, and normal. Additional topics covered include the
central limit theorem, statistical estimation, an introduction to stochastic processes,
and applications to noise and reliability. Prerequisite: MA-262. (3-0-3)
MA-355 - Numerical Analysis
This course covers number systems, floating-point arithmetic, and error analysis, as
well as Taylor, interpolating and mini-max polynomials. Integration and differentiation,
methods of solving equations, and systems of linear equations are also addressed.
Prerequisite: MA-262, and CT-115, CS-150 or CS-130. (2-2-4)

This course covers the definition of “transform,” focusing on the Laplace transform of
algebraic, exponential, and trigonometric functions. It also addressed basic theorems
including shifting, initial, and final-value theorems; unit-step, periodic, and delta
functions; methods of inverting transforms; solutions of differential equations by
transform methods; Fourier series and coefficients; expansion of functions in Fourier
series; complex Fourier coefficients; Parseval’s Theorem; and Fourier transform and its
properties. Prerequisite: MA-340. (3-0-3)
MA-525 - Statistics Using Excel
This course provides an understanding of basic statistical principles and tests and
their application using Excel. Topics include collecting and organizing data, theorems,
descriptive and inferential statistics, probability, discrete and normal distributions,
sampling distributions, central limit theorem, estimation and hypothesis testing and
regression analysis. Prerequisite: undergraduate statistics course or work experience.
(3)
MAF-800 - Manufacturing Research Background
The student will focus on the study of Manufacturing process and developments over
the previous decades. The course will assist the student in synthesizing how demand
and technology have led to the current systems and procedures. The student will
explore current operations within a global context as well as areas of improvement for
the future. The focus will be to start identifying areas for research at a later stage and
explore the background. Prerequisite: None. (6)

328 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

MA-360 - Laplace and Fourier Analysis

MAF-810 - Manufacturing Research Methodologies
The student will evaluate and develop research methodologies and strategies suitable
for Manufacturing and address the data sources and information to test a hypothesis or
research question. It is expected the student will be building upon MAF-800 in refining
and developing their research task and plan. (6)
MAF-820 - Manufacturing Future Demands
The student will research the future demands on a regional, national and global level
and how these influence the specific research questions and demands. Data collection
and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Manufacturing on the short,
medium and long term. (6)
MAF-830 - Strategies for Manufacturing
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
preparation, protection, and resilience of Manufacturing. Students will be introduced
to the influences of economics and politics that dictate manufacturing planning based
upon non-technical aspects and requirements (e.g., how noise pollution dictates design
and efficiency as well as operations). (6)

The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives and a
timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research milestones according
to the proposal and research plan. (6)
MAF-900 - Manufacturing Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. (6)
MAF-910 - Manufacturing Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 according to the approved proposal.
The student will also submit Chapters 1-3 to the Institutional Review Board (IRB) and
Academic Review Board (ARB). After receiving the necessary approvals, the student will
conduct data collection and analysis activities consistent with the research plan. (6)
MAF-920 - Manufacturing Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)

329 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

MAF-840 - Manufacturing Research Proposal

MAF-930 - Manufacturing Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to the student’s
Chair and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their
research. The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete
document. The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document
to the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must
receive approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance
forward. (6)
MAF-940 - Manufacturing Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
MBA-501 - Professional Writing Practicum
This course is designed to provide master’s level students with the necessary writing
skills to be successful writers in a professional environment. (3)

Course focus is predominantly on prescriptive analytics with some parts focused on
predictive analytics. Topics include operations research techniques and their application
to decision making such as mathematical optimization, networks modeling, stochastic
modeling, and multi-objective modeling. Other topics such as PERT, CPM, computer
simulation, decision analysis using decision trees and quantitative value functions,
and heuristic methods are covered, as well as use of contemporary computer software
for problem solving. In particular, the course will extensively use MS Excel for solving
the decision-making problems. Case-study approach to problem solving is used.
Recommended prerequisite: Undergraduate statistics or SM-525. (3)
MBA-515 - Applied Statistics & Visualization for Analytics
Introduces multivariate regression and random forests for modeling data. Addresses
data access, variable selection and model diagnostics. Introduces foundations for
visual thinking. Reviews common statistical graphics such as dot plots, box plots, q-q
plots. Addresses more advanced methods such as scatterplot matrices enhanced by
smoothed or density contours, and search tools for finding graphics with suggestive
patterns. Course will introduce R software for analysis. A final project will involve
visualization of a real data set. Prerequisite: MBA-510. (3)
MBA-520 - Big Data Warehousing & Analytic Systems
This course will equip the student with the necessary skills to solve complex problems
and design solutions using Big Data. The student will be able to gain an understanding

330 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

MBA-510 - Analytics and Decision Analysis

of how to design databases to manage large volumes of data from multiple sources,
and how that data can be analyzed and translated into meaningful results. The
student will be introduced to the field of Analytics, gain an understanding of Enterprise
Data Warehousing models, be introduced to Data Mining techniques and tools used
for mining the data warehouse, and build specific Data Marts. The student will be
introduced to predictive analysis and will be expected to develop models to extract
data, perform trend analysis, establish patterns, and make projections. Must have
the ability to use Structured Query Language with a basic relational database system,
ability to read pseudo code, and understand basic data structures like arrays. Having an
understanding of algebra and basic probability and statistics would be helpful, though
not required. Prerequisite: MBA-510. (3)
MBA-540 - Web Analytics
The course covers concepts and techniques for retrieving, exploring, visualizing, and
analyzing social network and social media data, website usage, and clickstream
data. Students learn to use key metrics to assess goals and return on investment,
perform social network analysis to identify important social actors, subgroups, and
network properties in social media. Students will learn specialized skills in Advanced
Excel, Python, JavaScript (D3.js, Leaflet.js), HTML/CSS, API Interactions, Social Media
Mining, SQL, Tableau, Advanced Statistics, Machine Learning, R, Git/GitHub, and more.
Prerequisite: MBA-510 (3)

A bridge course designed for students without a degree in business, this course
addresses foundations of accounting, finance, statistics, and economics. Students
are provided a broad overview of each of these topics for later application in the MBA
program. This course is waived for students with an undergraduate degree in business
management or business administration. (3)
MBA-601 - Special Topics in Business Administration
Research into business administration subjects. Student primarily works in a guided
study format with a mentor. Permission required from the instructor and academic
dean. This course may be repeated with different projects. (1-4)
MBA-615 - Financial Management
Provides an understanding of the business decision framework in the context of the
economic environment in which decisions are made. Covers topics in capital investment
policy, financing and capital structures, dividend policy, financial statement analysis,
forecasting, and working capital management. If taking MBA-620, it is preferable
to complete it before MBA-615. Prerequisite: MBA-600 or undergraduate degree in
business. (3)

331 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

MBA-600 - Fundamentals of Professional Management

MBA-616 - Financial & Contract Management
This course is an introduction to financial and contract management for technical
managers. Topics include financial management accounting (including elementary
accounting principles, assets, liabilities, and stockholders’ equity), direct and indirect
costs, revenues, profits, indices to financial position, use of financial reports, return
on investment, net present value, internal rate of return, and financial management
(including cash and funds flow statements). An introduction to the principles of contract
formation is presented, highlighting the distinctive characteristics of contracting with
the federal government as well as the team concept for effective contracting. The
role of the program manager as the key team member is a prime focus. Subcontract
management, competitive negotiation techniques, contract financing, and cost
reimbursement are also included. Case studies supplement theoretical discussions. (3)
MBA-620 - Managerial Accounting
The course examines the use of accounting data in corporate planning and control.
The aim is student proficiency in the analysis and design of control systems in order to
make decisions that allow management attention to be focused on long-term strategic
issues. Covers internal and external auditing systems, financial reporting, and tax
planning. Prerequisite: MBA-600 or undergraduate degree in business. (3)

Technology has created amazing new opportunities for businesses and organizations.
Mobile smartphones, tablets, all-in-one desktops and sophisticated software are
just some of the radical changes that have revolutionized the workplace. Although
the explosive technology growth has increased productivity and advancement, it has
also created changes in worker requirements, employee expectations and workplace
changes. This course analyzes organizational behavior in a technical environment.
Cases are analyzed to develop skills in applying theories to common managerial
problems in technology driven organizations. Students completing this course may not
enroll in SM-513 for additional credit. (3)
MBA-627 - Impact of Emerging Technology on Management
This course will focus on emerging technologies that influence management. Students
will learn leading edge skills to understand the technologies and innovations that are
increasingly changing the business and public administration landscape. The course
will put students at the forefront of new technology to produce value for their future
business, employers, and customers. (3)
MBA-630 - Marketing Process and Strategy
Explains key marketing concepts and their significance in domestic and international
activities. Analyzes marketing problems and efforts regarding the organization’s product
and services, pricing activities, channel selection, and promotion strategies. Emphasis is
on development and implementation of marketing plans and programs. (3)

332 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

MBA-625 - Organizational Behavior in a Technical Environment

MBA-631 - Technical Personnel Management
This course reviews the problems of personnel management in a technical organization.
Topics include environmental requirements for effective and innovative technical
efforts, direction and motivation, leadership behavior, recruitment of technical staff,
orientation and training programs, personnel placement and reassignment, assignment
of work, salary administration, personnel evaluation and counseling, professional
growth and promotion, technical obsolescence and retraining, equal opportunity
programs, employee grievances, and handling of conflict situations. Students explore
typical personnel management situations that arise in a technical organization. (3)
MBA-635 - Technology-Enabled Operations
This course will prepare you to contribute effectively to today’s technology-enabled
workplace by understanding how to leverage processes, systems, and data to create
business value. We’ll examine business operations in traditional companies, between
firms, and in digital businesses. We will consider the perspectives and needs of both
start-ups and established organizations. (3)
MBA-640 - Managerial Economics

MBA-646 - Federal Contract Project Management
This course provides an overview of the theory and practice of managing a project
in an organizational setting. Fundamental concepts are covered to provide a solid
understanding and foundation of managing each phase of the project life cycle,
adhering to organizational and cost constraints, setting goals for stakeholders, and
utilizing best practices to complete the project on time and within budget. Project
management is examined in the realm of various technology fields. (3)
MBA-647 - Methods of Project Management
Methods of Project Management focuses on IT project management and is built
around the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK). You will learn how IT
projects differ from other kinds of projects and how the methods and techniques of
project management must be modified/adapted for IT projects. In addition, you will
gain an increased understanding of what managers do (or should be doing) and why
managers ask you to do the things that they do. The course presents methods, tools,
and techniques that can be used to effectively manage IT projects, both large and small.
Prerequisite MBA-646 or equivalent. (3)

333 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Application of relevant economic theory to business problems. Examines general
principles that can be applied to the business decision-making process in the presence
of risk and uncertainty. Analysis of demand, costs, productivity, pricing policies,
market structure, and government policies toward business within various marketing
structures. (3)

MBA-648 - Project Management/Competitive Advantage
Project Management takes decision-making and a business-oriented approach to
the management of projects which is reinforced throughout the course with current
examples of project management in action. Project management is central to
operations within the context of a variety of successful organizations, whether publicly
held, private or not-for-profit. Prerequisite: MBA-646 or equivalent. (3)
MBA-650 - Strategic Management
Examines the objectives, elements and framework of analysis for strategic
management. Case studies will be used as the primary tool of learning and analysis.
Working well with others, synthesizing information, applying sound business judgment,
and communicating crisply are key skills for this class. This class should be taken as
the last core class prior to the capstone project. (3)
MBA-657 - Transformational Leadership & Innovation
Leadership is the process of influencing others to achieve results and this course
examines leadership concepts applied to managing people, organizations and strategic
processes. Leadership perspectives and philosophies of organization development,
functions and systems are examined. Finally, students will examine how they can
provide innovative leadership based on both leadership theory and practice. Students
will be expected to apply the various leadership skills and techniques to address
challenges and opportunities they face through the term project. (3)

As the comprehensive business law course, areas of law critical to the success of
technology managers and entrepreneurs are examined. Topics include contract issues,
torts and product liability, business crimes, intellectual property, cyber law, cybercrimes,
the law and structure of business organizations, employment, and bankruptcy. The legal
issues are also explored in the context of a rapidly evolving global cyber environment,
changing technology and business practices. (3)
MBA-659 - Leadership & Managing Human Capital
This course examines the concept of leading an increasingly diverse and global
workforce. Emphasis is placed on creating a work environment adaptable to the new
challenges of the 21st century. This course is based on the understanding that human
capital is critical to creating competitive advantage. Course material is examined
from a systems perspective. Theory and practice will be explored by comparing and
contrasting effective use of leadership in both the private and public sectors. (3)
MBA-660 - Special Projects in Master’s of Business Administration
Research into business administration and related subjects. Student primarily works
in a guided study format with a mentor. Permission required from the instructor and
academic dean. This course may be repeated with different projects to a maximum of 9

334 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

MBA-658 - Legal, Political & Ethical

credits. (3)
MBA-665 - Entrepreneurship
Course focuses on all aspects of starting a new business. Emphasis is on the
critical role of recognizing and creating opportunities. Topics include attributes of
entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial careers, evaluating opportunities, writing business
plans, and financing the venture. (3)
MBA-672 - Mathematics of Cryptography
Cryptography is indispensable for providing confidentiality of information in computer
systems. This course explains the inner workings of cryptographic primitives and
how to correctly use them. Students will learn how to reason about the security of
cryptographic constructions and how to apply this knowledge to real-world applications.
Students will examine many deployed protocols and analyze mistakes in existing
systems. The course discusses public-key techniques that let two or more parties
generate a shared secret key. Students will cover the relevant number theory and
discuss public-key encryption and basic key-exchange. Students are expected to have
knowledge of Calculus I and a scripting language such as python. Prerequisite: IAE-685
and CS-620 or permission of department chair. (3)

Students complete a research project in the field of major concentration. The research
is supervised by a faculty member and must be defended by the student in an oral
examination. Internships under the supervision of an academic advisor are an option.
This course is to be taken last or next to last as the student applies accumulated
knowledge of both core and concentration classes to this effort. (3)
MBA-701 - Federal Acquisitions & Contracting
This course covers the fundamentals of Federal acquisitions and contracting and will
provide a comprehensive understanding of the acquisition environment. Students
will develop professional skills for making business decisions and advising other
acquisition team members to successfully meet customers’ needs. Participation in
small group simulation exercises will prepare students to provide contracting support
within the overarching business relationships of government and industry. Prerequisite:
MBA-646 or equivalent. (3)
MBA-702 - Mergers and Acquisitions
This course surveys the drivers of success in mergers and acquisitions (M & A) and
develops your skills in the design and evaluation of these transactions. The M & A
transactions will cover the foundation for a wide range of mergers and acquisition fields
including corporate development, investment banking, consulting and advising senior
management. (3)

335 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

MBA-700 - Capstone Project

MBA-703 - Software Acquisitions
This course covers the acquisition of open systems and commercial off-the-shelf
(COTS) products, an increasingly vital element of corporate and government software
development. Properly managed software acquisition offers potential for significant
time and cost savings over a system’s lifetime. The transition from proprietary, custombuilt systems to systems based on standards and commercial products is not easy,
however. Managers and their staff must understand the risks and opportunities
associated with this acquisition approach. (3)
MBA-705 - Organizational Change & Information Systems Implementation
Information systems represent a critical resource to organizations, yet there are many
unknowns about how to successfully design and implement those systems and many
firms today continue to struggle with the deployment process. This seminar explores
issues associated with the implementation of information systems in organizations–
including requirements analysis, project management, outsourcing, and virtual teams
using a variety of theoretical or conceptual lenses such as control and coordination,
organizational change, and trust. The emphasis of this course is on understanding
Information Systems implementation from an organizational perspective. (3)

Origin and behavior of materials. Classifications of materials. Physical metallurgymechanical and physical properties, crystalline structure, imperfections in solids,
phase diagrams, failure mechanisms in materials, hardening and tempering,
isothermal diagrams. Involves hands-on experiences through lab sessions in the use of
metallurgical and mechanical testing equipment. Lecture and laboratory. (3-0-3)
MEC-210 - Engineering Mechanics - Statics
Fundamental concepts and conditions of static equilibrium; their application to systems
of forces and couples acting on rigid bodies; and the calculation of centers of gravity,
centroids, and moments of inertia. Prerequisites: MA-261. Corequisite: PH-261. (3-0-3)
MEC-215 - Intro to Engineering Design Computer-Aided-Design
Introduction to computer-aided design (CAD) for product design, modeling, and
prototyping. Individual use and team-based environment to design and prototype
a functional and manufacturable marketable product. Application to design,
manufacturing, and analysis using geometric tolerancing and dimensioning. Two hours
lecture and three hours laboratory. (2-3-3)
MEC-220 - Principles of Mechatronics
This course will introduce you to Mechatronics as a multidisciplinary engineering
discipline that includes electronics, electrical, mechanical, computer systems
engineering, together with information technology. Theory lectures will introduce the
core components of mechatronic systems: electrical and electronic components and

336 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

MEC-155 - Introduction to Materials Science

circuits, sensors and actuators. In laboratory work, you will work on putting theory into
practice in the context of a challenging project that is at the core of a national design
and build competition. This course significantly develops the generic skills of teamwork,
planning, leadership, and communication. Conventional lectures will be given on the
theoretical aspects of these graduate capabilities. You will then apply these skills in
the completion of specific learning activities such as design project, report, testing and
prototyping. The dry run testing of the prototype Mechatronics mechanisms will provide
an opportunity for you to receive feedback. Prerequisites: EL-150 and MEC-215. (3-0-3)
MEC-310 - Engineering Mechanics - Dynamics
Kinematics of particles in rectilinear and curvilinear motions. Kinetics of particles,
Newton’s second law, energy and momentum methods. Systems of particles,
Kinematics and plane motion of rigid bodies, forces and accelerations, energy and
momentum methods. Introduction to mechanical vibrations. Prerequisites: MEC-210
and MA-262. (3-0-3)
MEC-330 - Fluid Mechanics
Continuum, velocity field, fluid statics, manometers, basic conservation laws for
systems and control volumes, dimensional analysis. Euler and Bernoulli equations,
viscous flows, boundary layers, flow in channels and around submerged bodies, onedimensional gas dynamics, turbomachinery. Applications in hydraulic, pneumatic, and
fluidics discussed. Two hours lecture and three hours laboratory. Prerequisites: MEC310 and MA-262.

Introduces use and analysis of electronic circuits and input mechanism of various
sensors, design of analog signal conditioning systems based on the system
requirement, as well as understanding the theory and the art of modern instrumentation
and measurements (I&M) systems. Topics include BJT and MOSFET circuit model
and analysis; operational amplifier; instrumentation amplifier; survey of sensor input
mechanisms; analog signal conditioning and sensor application; measurement system
architecture; errors in measurement; standard used in measurement. Two hours lecture
and three hours laboratory. Prerequisite: EL-200. (2-3-3)
MEC-375 - Engineering Safety
Safety and health in the manufacturing, construction, and utilities industries, including
pertinent laws, codes, regulations, standards, and product liability considerations.
Organizational and administrative principles and practices for safety management and
safety engineering, accident investigation, safety education, and safety enforcement.
(3-0-3)
MEC-400 - Special Topics in Mechatronics
This course covers application of engineering principles of research into a special

337 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

MEC-370 - Electronics and Instrumentation

project. Projects vary from semester to semester. Students primarily work in a guided
study environment with a faculty mentor. Prerequisites: permission of instructor and
department chair and at least junior standing. This course may be repeated with
different projects. (1-4-3)
MEC-410 - Kinematics & Dynamics of Machinery
The kinematics and dynamics of machinery and its applications to mechatronic
systems. Analysis of motion translation/rotation in machinery, energy of machine
mechanisms. Involves projects, seminars, and workshops regarding graphical,
analytical, and numerical techniques for dynamic analysis and synthesis of machines.
Two hours lecture and three hours laboratory. Prerequisite: MEC-310. (2-3-3)
MEC-455 - Mechatronic System Design
Presents specifics in the mechanical design of mechatronic systems. Includes problem
analysis, conceptualization, design/material selection, and performance analysis.
Addresses mechanical subsystems, bill of materials, and economic analysis of the
system. Two hours lecture and three hours laboratory. Prerequisites: MEC-330 and
MEC-410. (2-3-3)

Capstone design project. Design and analysis of a complete mechatronic system
using controllers, sensors, and actuators. Advance systems programming with
current industrial network programs and GUIs. Implementation of project and process
management principles as well as professional documentation and presentation. Two
hours lecture and three hours laboratory. Prerequisites: EE-285 and MEC-455. (2-3-3)
MIL-800 - Military Leadership Research Background
The student will focus on the study of the latest military leadership strategies, tactics,
and developments. The student will synthesize the growing effect of current military
leadership practices on military operations, national military-civilian relationships, and
international relationships. The student will identify military leadership failures and
areas for improvement. The faculty will directly support and mentor the exploration
phase of the planning. (6)
MIL-810 - Military Leadership Research Methods
Under a Chair and committee, a student will continue evaluating the military leadership
field. The student will also develop research methodologies and strategies suitable
for understanding military leadership. The student will address the data sources,
information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis or research question(s). The student
will build upon MIL-800 in refining and developing their research task and plan. (6)
MIL-820 - Military Leadership Future Demands
Under a Chair/Committee, the student will further research military leadership’s future

338 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

MEC-462 - Automation Systems Design

demands and explore specific research questions. Data collection and applications will
be central to evaluating military leaders’ needs in the short, medium, and long term. The
literature review will be more specific in focus and direction at this stage. (6)
MIL-830 - Strategies for Military Leadership
Under the Chair/Committee’s direction, the student will undertake a robust and
comprehensive analysis of the strategies for the growth and evolution of military
leadership. The student’s topic will gain a definitive direction. The student will develop a
draft methodology. The student’s Chair/Committee will review both to ensure the topic’s
scope is not too broad and the draft methodology is appropriate. (6)
MIL-840 - Military Leadership Research Proposal
The student will produce a research proposal that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The research proposal will address the research topic, general problem,
specific problem, purpose, research questions, limitations, delimitations, and timing
plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research milestones according to
the proposal and research plan. The student must gain IRB and ARB approvals by this
stage. (6)

The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the proposal’s
boundaries and research plan. The student will use the materials developed during the
800 series courses. The student’s Chair/Committee will review Chapters 1-2. The Chair/
Committee’s approval is required for the student to advance. The Dean of Doctoral
Programs will review any disagreements raised by the student’s Chair/Committee.
MIL-910 - Military Leadership Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 (the methodology chapter that
is robust and identifies all implications) according to the approved proposal. After
receiving the necessary approvals, the student will conduct data collection and analysis
activities consistent with the research plan. (6)
MIL-920 - Military Leadership Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair/
Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
MIL-930 - Military Leadership Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to their Chair/
Committee. Students will also finalize all required elements of their research. The
student’s Chair/Committee must review and approve the complete document. The
student’s Chair/Committee will then submit the complete document to the University
Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must receive approval

339 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

MIL-900 - Military Leadership Doctoral Writing I

from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance. (6)
MIL-940 - Military Leadership Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voice (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee, and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
NT-100 - Computer Architecture & Construction
Basic introduction to the design and construction of a current model PC including
operating systems and some diagnostic software. Students build, configure, test and
troubleshoot PCs in the laboratory. This material can be used as a basis for studying for
the CompTIA A+ exam. (1-4-3)
NT-150 - Computer Networking
This course is a continuation of NT-100 with major emphasis on local network
equipment, network software and addressing schemes. Students build, configure, test
and troubleshoot a network in the laboratory. Routers and switches are included. This
material can be used as a basis for studying for CISCO’s ICND1. (1-4-3)

Cloud computing services allow users to lease computing resources from large scale
data centers operated by service providers. Using cloud services, users can deploy a
wide variety of applications dynamically and on-demand. Most cloud service providers
use machine virtualization to provide flexible and cost-effective resource sharing.
Organizations must take the proper steps to transition to virtualized services by first
consolidating their server farms, then virtualize infrastructure such as servers and
workstations and databases. This course will use an intensive hands-on approach to
teach students to plan, design and build such a virtualized infrastructure to meet the
needs of the organization in a cost effective, efficient and secure manner. Prerequisite:
NT-100, NT-150, NT-250 or Permission (4)
OP-301 - Fiber-Optic Communications
Lightwave propagation in fiber optics, including modal conditions, numerical aperture,
attenuation and signal distortion in step-index and graded-index fibers. Connectors,
splices and analysis of coupling losses. Operating principles and characteristics of
optical sources and detectors. Transmitter and receiver circuits for analog and digital
communication. Design consideration for practical optical communication links using
power budget and rise-time analysis. Discussion and comparison of latest multiplexing
and coupling techniques used in optical networks. Contains labs. Prerequisites: EL-261
and MA-261. (2-2-3)

340 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

NT-350 - Virtualized Networks and Data Centers

ORM-800 - Occupational Risk Management Research Background
The student will focus on the study of the Occupational Risk Management strategies,
tactics, and developments. The student will explore all areas where occupational risk
management is required by law and ethically. The faculty will directly support and
mentor the exploration phase of the planning. (6)
ORM-810 - Occupational Risk Management Research Methodologies
Under a Chair and committee, a student will continue evaluating the Occupational Risk
Management field. The student will also develop research methodologies and strategies
suitable for understanding Occupational Risk Management. The student will address the
data sources, information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis or research question. It
is expected the student will be building upon ORM-800 in refining and developing their
research task and plan. (6)
ORM-820 - Occupational Risk Management Future Demands
Under a Chair and committee, a student will further research the future demands in
the Occupational Risk Management field and how these influence specific research
questions. Data collection and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of
Occupational Risk Management in the short, medium, and long term. The literature
review will be more specific in focus and direction at this stage. (6)

The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the Occupational Risk Management field under the direction
of their Chair/committee. A firm direction and draft of a methodology will be taking
shape and direction. The topic will be reviewed to ensure the scope is not too broad. (6)
ORM-840 - Occupational Risk Management Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives
and include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research
milestones according to the proposal and research plan. The IRB and ARB will need to
be completed by this stage. (6)
ORM-900 - Occupational Risk Management Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. The material for these
chapters will have been established in the FM 800 series. Any disagreement within the
committee will be reviewed by the Dean of Doctoral Programs. (6)
ORM-910 - Occupational Risk Management Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 (methodology chapter that is robust
341 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

ORM-830 - Strategies for Occupational Risk Management

and identifies all implications) according to the approved proposal. After receiving the
necessary approvals, the student will conduct data collection and analysis activities
consistent with the research plan. (6)
ORM-920 - Occupational Risk Management Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
ORM-930 - Occupational Risk Management Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to their Chair
and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their research.
The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete document.
The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document to the
University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must receive
approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance forward. (6)
ORM-940 – Occupational Risk Management Doctoral Defense

PH-201 - General Physics I
This is a non-calculus-based physics course intended for credit in engineering
technology courses. PH-261 is to be used for electrical, computer, and software
engineering courses. PH-201 addresses mechanics, focusing on units, conversion
factors, vector diagrams, translational equilibrium, friction, torque and rotational
equilibrium, uniformly accelerated motion, projectiles, Newton’s Law, work energy
and power, kinetic and potential energy, conservation of energy, and impulse and
momentum. It also addresses heat, focusing on temperature scales, thermal properties
of matter, heat and temperature change, heat and change of phase, physics of heat
transfer, and applications. Prerequisite: MA-114. Students completing this course may
not enroll in PH-261 for additional credit. (2-2-3)
PH-202 - General Physics II
Non-calculus-based physics intended for credit in engineering technology courses. Use
PH-262 for electrical, computer and software engineering courses. Light and sound:
wave motion, nature of light, reflection and mirrors, refraction, prisms, dispersion lenses;
simple harmonic motion; sound transmission, resonance, interference. Doppler Effect.
Electricity and magnetism: Static electricity, electric fields, magnetic fields, electric
potential, capacitance; electricity in motion; magnetic induction; electromagnetic

342 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)

relations. Alternating currents. Prerequisite: PH-201. (2-2-3)
PH-253 - Energy and the Environment
This course covers fundamentals of energy generation (conversion), current diversity
of energy resources from fossil fuels to renewable and alternative sources, and
environmental impact of the generation and use of energy. Topics include the
availability, economics and environmental consequences of energy generation,
distribution and consumption from oil, coal, gas, hydrogen, nuclear, wind, solar,
geothermal, hydro, biomass and other alternative sources currently under development
and study by the scientific and engineering communities. Efficient use of energy in the
domestic, transportation and industrial sectors will be discussed. This course may be
used as a general, technical, science or engineering elective. Prerequisite: PH-201 (3-03)
PH-261 - Engineering Physics I
This is a calculus-based physics course. It covers displacement, velocity and
acceleration, equations of motion, Newton’s laws of motion and their applications,
gravitation, work and energy, impulse and momentum, conservation laws, rotational
motion, rotational dynamics, equilibrium, elasticity, and periodic motion. Prerequisite:
MA-261. Corequisite: MA-262. Students completing this course may not enroll in PH201 for additional credit. (3-2-4)

This course covers calculus-based physics. A continuation of PH-261, topics include
wave motion, vibration and sound, electricity and magnetism, Coulomb’s Law, electrical
fields, and induction. Prerequisite: PH-261. (3-2-4)
PH-263 - Engineering Physics III
This is a calculus-based physics course. It covers an introduction to light, lenses,
and diffraction; photons and their interaction with matter; wave-particle duality, basic
quantum discoveries leading to the Bohr atom and atomic spectra; and the interaction
of electrons and photons with matter with special emphasis on the design of detectors
and electronic devices that use quantum effects. Prerequisite PH-262. (3-2-4)
PH-400 - Einstein’s Theory of Relativity
Introduction to Einstein’s Special and General Theory of Relativity. Topics covered:
the physics of Lorentz contraction, time dilation, the “twin paradox” and energy,
momentum in Special Relativity; mass in Relativity, Schwarzschild metric, Black Holes
and Cosmology, behavior of light and applications to Global Positioning Systems.
Prerequisites: PH-263 and MA-340. (3-0-3)
PH-463 - Quantum Physics
This course addresses the fundamentals of quantum physics. This includes wave-

343 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

PH-262 - Engineering Physics II

particle duality, the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, Schrodinger’s wave equation and
solutions, WKB approximation, time-dependent perturbation theory methods, interaction
of matter with radiation, application to atomic and molecular spectra, and lasers and
quantum computing. Prerequisites: MA-262 and PH-262. (3-0-3)
PHL-813 - Professional Ethics & Leadership
This course examines the role of ethics in society. Cultural diversity, legal behaviors and
the impact of moral behaviors on private and public organizations are presented in case
studies. The various roles and impacts of unethical behaviors by system developers,
users, managers, executives and consultants will be analyzed and the positive and
negative impacts discussed as they pertain to the overall trustworthiness. (3)
PHL-880 - Special Topics in Management
This course provides students the opportunity to examine in-depth issues relevant
to Management and Decision Sciences. It is expected that students will produce a
publishable paper. (3)
PHL-900 - Management Theory in a Global Economy
This course provides an overview of seminal management theories and their relevance,
applicability, and/or divergence from current business practice. The focus of the
course is on understanding the application of management theories in the context of
organizational sustainability in a global economy. (3)

This course focuses on the role of the successful product manager. Students will
examine market research techniques and tools, ideation, planning, forecasting,
production, and marketing of a product at all stages of the product lifecycle. The
course will delve into analyzing market conditions, defining the features and functions
of a product, and supervising the production of the product. The course will explore
new product development and delivery methodologies as well as the related impact
on product success and customer satisfaction. Students will learn how to use
focus groups, customer site visits, ethnography, consumer panels, social media,
crowdsourcing, Alpha and Beta testing, and market testing as tools effectively. Students
analyze how the product manager creates superior and differentiated new products—
ones that deliver unique benefits and great value to the customer while producing
product profitability for the company. Prerequisite: None. (3)
PRM-510 - Winning Product Management Strategies
This course emphasizes innovation strategies, particularly the framework and direction
for product development. Students will examine the benefits and limitations of
specific innovation strategic frameworks as well as the role of supporting strategies
of technology, marketing, platforms, intellectual property, and capability. The student
will explore how product roadmaps are created and updated as ideas are refined.

344 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

PRM-500 - Becoming the Successful Product Manager

The student will also develop a business case, examine ways of winning buy-in from
the people whose support is essential to success, and develop a product charter.
Prerequisite: PRM-500. (3)
PRM-520 - New Products Process
The success of new products is highly dependent on the quality of a company’s product
development practices and processes. This course explores how structured and
consistent processes across an organization contribute significantly to the successful
development of products. The Stage-Gate, Integrated Product Development (IPD),
Waterfall, Agile, Lean, and Design Thinking product development models all have
advantages in specific situations. Students will learn the principles of each model and
how to apply one or more of those models to particular circumstances. Students will
also gain advanced knowledge of the software development process (e.g., Agile, Scrum,
Jira, Git, DevOps, QA, etc.) and the UX design process and tools (e.g., User Research,
Prototyping, Usability Testing, INvision, Balsamiq. etc.) to work effectively with
developers, UX designers, and data scientists/analysts. Prerequisite: PRM-500. (3)
PRM-530 - Product Management Tools & Metrics

PRM-540 - Leveraging Expert Systems
This course focuses on Expert Systems, Big Data, and Business Analytics within the
context of product management. The student’s knowledge base will expand through
an exploration of the role of Expert Systems in product development and lifecycle
management. The student will also demonstrate how the Product Manager can apply
Big Data and Business Analytics to help improve product competitiveness and find new
opportunities. Prerequisite: PRM-500 (3)
PRM-600 - Designing & Developing Great Products
Students will design a new product in this course. The student will develop prototypes
of increasing precision. The student will evaluate design feedback from customers and
continue improving their product. During the process, students will also analyze a range
of development issues and best practices, including the use of sprints, establishment of
appropriate infrastructure, progress tracking, and working with remote and third-party
teams. Prerequisite: PRM-500 (3)
PRM-610 - Managing the Life of a Product
This course will prepare the student for a product launch through close coordination

345 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

The course examines a wide range of tools at all levels of product development,
including new product process, product design, product portfolio management, and
product life cycle management. Students will translate knowledge into measurable and
manageable actions and tasks. Students will also learn to employ performance metrics,
emphasizing the application of metrics for learning and continuous improvement.
Prerequisite: PRM-500 (3)

with key departments like marketing, operations, sales, and quality assurance. The
student will build up to an effective product launch, and then learn how to track and
manage the product in the market after launch. The student will focus on collaboration
to ensure appropriate growth in product features as well as market viability. Finally, the
student will analyze the decisions and steps needed when “sunsetting” a product at the
end of its life cycle. Prerequisite: PRM-500 (3)
PRM-625 – Product Management Culture, Organizations, & Teams
Product Management success depends on the people, culture, and environment of a
company that is created to foster innovation. Technology has created new opportunities
for product management businesses and organizations. This course focuses on the
characteristics of an innovative culture, requirements for a high performing team,
structures to support cross- functional teams, and different project contexts. Students
will also explore the roles and responsibilities at various levels and within different
stages of product development. Cases will be analyzed to examine common product
management problems in technology-driven organizations. Prerequisite: PRM-500 (3)
PRM-635 - Technology-Enabled Product Management

PRM-700 - Product Management Capstone
The Product Management Capstone is the culminating effort of the student’s entire
learning experience. The student will prepare for and take the Product Development
and Management Association’s New Product Development Professional (NPDP)
Certification exam to demonstrate mastery of the PDMA Body of Knowledge and the
Program Outcomes. The student will also complete a master’s level thesis research
project (with the submission of a final report, approval by a thesis committee, and an
oral defense of the research work) or a comprehensive Product Management project.
Students will choose either the thesis research or product management project option.
The Capstone Course must be taken at the end of the student’s degree program.
Prerequisites: All PRM degree program courses prior to PRM-700. (3)
PRM-800 - Product Management Research Background
The student will focus on the study of the latest Product Management processes
and developments. The student will synthesize the growing effect of technology on
current operations, international relationships and effects on the field, and where there
are areas of improvements or failings. The focus will be to start identifying areas for
research at a later stage and explore the background. (6)

346 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

This course will prepare you to contribute effectively to today’s technology-enabled
product management workplace by understanding how to leverage processes, systems,
and data to create business value. Students will examine product management
operations in traditional companies, between firms, and in digital businesses. Students
will analyze the perspectives and needs of both start-ups and established product
management organizations. Prerequisite: PRM-500 (3)

PRM-810 - Product Management Research Methodologies
The student will evaluate and develop research methodologies and strategies suitable
for Product Management and address the data sources and information to test a
hypothesis or research question. It is expected the student will be building upon PRM800 in refining and developing their research task and plan. (6)
PRM-820 - Product Management Future Demands
The student will research the future demands of product management and how these
influence specific research questions. Data collection and applications will be central to
evaluating the needs of Product Management on the short, medium and long term. (6)
PRM-830 - Strategies for Product Management
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of Product Management. Students will analyze the influences
of economics, international politics, and sustainability that dictate planning based upon
non-technical aspects. For example, how international disputes effect key resources,
costs, and schedules. (6)
PRM-840 - Product Management Research Proposal

PRM-900 - Product Management Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. (6)
PRM-910 - Product Management Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 according to the approved proposal.
The student will also submit Chapters 1-3 to the Institutional Review Board (IRB) and
Academic Review Board (ARB). After receiving the necessary approvals, the student will
conduct data collection and analysis activities consistent with the research plan. (6)
PRM-920 - Product Management Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
PRM-930 - Product Management Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to the student’s

347 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives and a
timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research milestones according
to the proposal and research plan. (6)

Chair and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their
research. The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete
document. The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document
to the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must
receive approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance
forward. (6)
PRM-940 - Product Management Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
REM-800 - Real Estate Management Research Background
The student will focus on the study of the latest real estate management strategies,
tactics developments, and technology. The student will synthesize the growing effect
of technology on current operations and future operation in the field and identify where
there are areas of improvements or failings. The focus will be to start identifying areas
for research at a later stage and explore the background of real estate management.
The faculty will directly support and mentor the exploration phase of the planning. (6)

Under a Chair and committee, a student will continue evaluating and develop research
methodologies and strategies suitable for understanding real estate management and
address the data sources, information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis or research
question. It is expected the student will be building upon REM-800 in refining and
developing their research task and plan. (6)
REM-820 - Real Estate Management Future Demands
Under a Chair and committee, a student will research the future demands in the real
estate management field and how these influence specific research questions. Data
collection and applications will be central to evaluating real estate management’s needs
in the short, medium, and long term. The literature review will be more specific in focus
and direction at this stage. (6)
REM-830 - Strategies for Real Estate Management
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the real estate management field under the direction of their
Chair/committee. (6)
REM-840 - Real Estate Management Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and

348 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

REM-810 - Real Estate Management Research Methodologies

planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives
and include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research
milestones according to the proposal and research plan. The IRB and ARB will need to
be completed at this stage. (6)
REM-900 - Real Estate Management Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. Any disagreement within
the committee will be reviewed by the Dean of Doctoral Programs. (6)
REM-910 - Real Estate Management Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 (methodology chapter that is robust
and identifies all implications) according to the approved proposal. After receiving the
necessary approvals, the student will conduct data collection and analysis activities
consistent with the research plan. (6)
REM-920 - Real Estate Management Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)

The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to their Chair
and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their research.
The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete document.
The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document to the
University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must receive
approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance forward. (6)
REM-940 - Real Estate Management Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
ROB-100 - Introduction to Robotics
This introductory course is a hands-on introduction to the key concepts and tools
underpinning robotic systems in use and development today. Intended to give students
the tools to understand robotic systems, to explore robotics for their own purposes,
and to pursue advanced study in the field. The course will cover the fundamentals of
manipulators, sensors, actuators, end effectors and product design for automation,

349 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

REM-930 - Real Estate Management Doctoral Writing IV

kinematics, control, programming of manipulators, along with an introduction to pattern
recognition and computer vision. Prerequisite: none. (3-0-3)
ROB-200 - Robotics Systems Engineering & Analysis
This course examines methods of specifying, designing, analyzing and testing robotics
systems. The principles and processes of robotics systems engineering are introduced
and applied to the development of robotic devices. The focus is on a robotic system
engineered to perform complex behavior. Robotic systems embed computing elements,
integrate sensors and actuators, operate in a reliable and robust fashion, and demand
rigorous engineering from conception through production. The course is organized
as a progression through the systems engineering process of conceptualization,
specification, design, and prototyping with consideration of verification and validation.
Students completing this course will engineer a robotic system through its complete
design and initial prototype. Prerequisites: ROB-100, EL-100 and EL-150 (3-0-3)
ROB-300 - Industrial Robotics
This course will cover the principles and techniques involved in industrial robotics.
Emphasis will be placed on industrial robot applications, analysis of robot manipulators,
components of industrial robots, robot programming and control. Students will explore
the use of robotics and machine learning in the efficiency of industrial processes.
Students will model, design, plan, program, select, and implement industrial robot
systems. Prerequisites: ROB-200 and MEC-215. (3-0-3)

An introduction to the design and control of autonomous robots. Mechanical
considerations, detection and navigational ability are discovered in this course. Students
will develop algorithms and use machine learning techniques to generate programs
to control electromechanical systems to perform tasks. The class incorporates teambased projects and laboratories. Prerequisites: EL-262, ROB-300. (3-0-3)
RSC-802 - Fundamentals of Doctoral Learning
Doctoral programs educate students for highly specialized careers in academe or
practice. Students of doctoral level programs are taught the ability to create knowledge
through original research in their areas of specialization. This course will orient new
doctoral students to learning at the doctoral level and prepare them for the entire
program of study. Students will each develop a Doctoral Learning Contract (DLC) that
will serve as guides through graduation. (6)
RSC-810 - Professional Research Theory & Practice I
Students will examine the research process in the context of quantitative and qualitative
methods. Students will develop a purpose statement, problem statement, and research
question. (3)

350 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

ROB-382 - Robotic Systems

RSC-811 - Professional Research Theory & Practice
This course is designed to provide students an overview of a broad range of qualitative
and quantitative methodologies applicable to doctoral level research. The course will
examine the research process, including problem statements, developing dissertation
research questions, conducting a literature review, and ethical implications in research.
Students begin examining topics for Chapter 1 of the dissertation. Prerequisite: DSM910
RSC-812 - Professional Research Theory & Practice II
This course takes the foundational research designs established in IAE-860 and
provides students with practical applications of research design in chapters one and
three of the dissertation. Students will generate significant portions of the writing in
these areas. Prerequisite: RSC-810 (3)
RSC-813 - Professional Ethics and Leadership
This course examines the role of ethics. Cultural diversity, legal behaviors and the
impacts of moral behaviors on business, corporations, and agencies are presented in
case studies. The various roles and impacts of unethical behaviors by system users,
managers, executives and consultants will be analyzed and the positive and negative
impacts discussed as they pertain to overall trustworthiness. IRB requirements as it
relates to research and human subjects will be examined in this course. Prerequisite:
RSC-801 or RSC-802. (3)

The objective of this course is to provide students with the necessary knowledge
to design and implement quantitative data analysis as part of scholarly research.
The focus is on crafting research questions, hypotheses and proper data collection
schemes. Students will explore a range of data analysis techniques useful for testing
hypothesis and answering research questions. Research topics include survey design,
correlational design, casual-comparative design and experimental designs. Statistics
topics include types of data, parametric versus non-parametric classes of tests,
descriptive statistics and inferential statistics. Prior experience with statistics is not
required. (3)
RSC-820 - Situation Awareness Analysis & Action
(Residency) Students will generate a purpose statement, problem statement, and
research question within their selected dissertation topic area. Corequisite: RSC-810. (3)
RSC-821 - Contemporary Research in Management
Specialized contemporary topics in management, managing information systems,
and decision analytics are presented for doctoral students. Qualifying exam will be
administered at this residency. Prerequisite: RSC-811 (3) RESIDENCY

351 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

RSC-815 – Problem Solve Quantitative Methods

RSC-825 - Applied Research in Information Assurance
Building on RSC-810 and RSC-820, students will engage in formal research in order
to develop the background of their topic problem statement and to locate seminal
research for the topic. Prerequisite: RSC-820. (3)
RSC-826 - Applied Research in Management & Decision Science
This course is a continuation of RSC-811 and RSC-821. It is devoted to enhancing
student understanding of dissertation research practices, with the intent of completing
an initial draft of Chapter 1 of the doctoral dissertation. Prerequisite: RSC-811 and RSC821. (3)
RSC-860 - Research Design
This course will expose the student to the overall research design process through the
analysis of knowledge claims, strategies of inquiry, and the development phases of
the research project. We will examine how to consider the philosophical worldviews
and how they are applied to the quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods research
methodologies. In addition, this course will provide the student with a brief introduction
to questionnaire design.

This course allows those students who have completed all relevant coursework in their
Doctoral program to maintain continuous enrollment in good standing. This course does
not apply toward degree requirements and may not be used to establish full or part time
status for financial aid. Course may be repeated as needed. Prerequisite: Completion of
all degree program requirements except for dissertation defense course. (1)
SAF-100 - Construction Safety Regulations
This course examines the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
29 CFR 1926 regulations, policies and procedures for the construction industry.
Consideration is given to work tasks and practices in the construction industry that
account for the most fatalities and injuries. The groundwork for creating safety
and health programs that comply with OSHA and other regulatory standards and
best practices as they build a compliance model for occupational health and safety
programs in construction will be laid. Prerequisite: None. (3-0-3) *Course offered in
8-week asynchronous online format.
SAF-120 - EM385 and Department of Defense Construction
This course covers the health and safety requirements for U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
(USACE) activities and operations that apply to contractors, military and government
employees who are tasked with enforcing or complying with the EM 385-1-1 USACE
Safety and Health requirements on Department of Defense (DOD) sites. Compatibilities,
comparisons and contrasts between the EM 385-1-1 manual requirements and OSHA
general industry and construction standards is an essential part of this course.

352 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

RSC-899 - Doctoral Dissertation Research

Prerequisite: SAF-100. (3-0-3) *Course offered in 8-week asynchronous online format.
SAF-214 - Hazardous Materials
This course will examine the hazards related to using, transporting, storing, and
disposing of hazardous materials. Elements of hazard communication, such as the
Globally Harmonized System and transportation safety (placarding/manifesting),
spill prevention and response, hazardous waste disposal, material substitution and
sustainable alternatives, and storage (UST/AST) containment, permitting and design
will be covered. Prerequisite: MA-114, MA-128, and PH-201. (3-0-3) *Course offered in
8-week asynchronous online format.
SAF-216 - Fire Prevention and Protection
This course covers the foundational principles of fire prevention and protection. Topics
covered in this course include chemical, electrical, natural, structural, and mechanical
explosion hazards; fundamentals of fire science; fire detection; fire suppression;
hazardous materials segregation/separation; and housekeeping. Written safety and
emergency action plans, procedures, work practices and elements of site and facility
design will be covered as they relate to fire prevention and protection. Prerequisite:
MA-114, MA-128, and PH-201. (3-0-3) *Course offered in 8-week asynchronous online
format.

Industrial Hygiene I provides an introduction to industrial hygiene and occupational/
environmental health concepts. This course introduces students to environmental
risk, epidemiology, toxicology, policy, and regulation. Industrial hygiene concepts and
calculations related to corrosives, flammables, toxic materials (particulates, liquids,
gases and vapors), and related chemical reactions are covered. Biological and chemical
hazards are the primary occupational health topics covered in this course. Application
of the industrial hygiene principles of anticipation, recognition, evaluation and control
to the unique exposure scenarios in construction are highlighted. Prerequisite: MA-114,
MA-128, and PH-201. (3-0-3) *Course offered in 8-week asynchronous online format.
SAF-302 - Industrial Hygiene II
Industrial Hygiene II reinforces the foundational industrial hygiene concepts discussed
in Industrial Hygiene I. A continuation of the examination of chemical hazards
and the introduction of the many physical hazards that fall under the occupational
health discipline are covered. Industrial hygiene concepts and calculations related
to electricity, radiation, ventilation, noise, climate conditions, illumination, vibration,
noise, and fall protection are covered. Application of the industrial hygiene principles
of anticipation, recognition, evaluation and control to the unique exposure scenarios in
construction are highlighted. Prerequisite: SAF-300. (3-0-3) *Course offered in 8-week
asynchronous online format.

353 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

SAF-300 - Industrial Hygiene I

SAF-304 - Ergonomics
This course covers basic ergonomic and human factors concepts, such as anatomy,
kinesiology, physiology, biomechanics, anthropometry, and physical/psychosocial
ergonomic risk factors. Mechanisms of injury for common musculoskeletal disorders
(MSDs), preventative measures, compensation, rehabilitation and return to work
strategies will be discussed. Common tools and strategies used to recognize
and analyze work tasks for ergonomic risks and the evaluation of common work
environments, including the mechanics of recommending and supporting ergonomic
improvements, use of ergonomic innovations, and task/work environment redesign
will be examined. Prerequisite: MA-114 and PH-201. (3-0-3) *Course offered in 8-week
asynchronous online format.
SAF-316 - Safety Management Systems
This course examines the concepts and principles involved in organizing and managing
safety performance within an organization. The integration of company-wide safety
programs/policies/procedures, safety performance metrics, and the importance
of management support. Key elements of a safety management system and the
associated systems, processes and procedures used in achieving high safety standards
in organization are discussed with an emphasis on the importance of critical thinking
with regard to the implementation of safety management systems in the construction
industry. ANSI Z10 and ISO 45001 will be used as the framework for these discussions.
Prerequisite: SAF-120. (3-0-3) *Course offered in 8-week asynchronous online format.

This course covers adult learning theory and techniques, data collection, needs analysis
and feedback, behavior and performance modification, presentation tools, competency
assessment, conflict resolution, mentoring, negotiation strategy, multidisciplinary
teamwork, methods of facilitating teams, and strategies for interpersonal
communications. This course will explore the role of construction safety professional’s
role in maintaining workplace safety competencies and outcomes as they relate to
safety education required for employee onboarding, regulatory compliance, competent
person requirements, and refresher training. Prerequisite: None. (3-0-3) *Course offered
in 8-week asynchronous online format.
SAF-400 - Environmental Permitting & Management
Environmental permitting (NPDES, air, solid waste, etc.) required by federal, state and
local regulatory agencies, emergency action planning, disaster preparedness, and
environmental hazards awareness topics (hazardous waste, chemical spills, soil and
groundwater pollution, site remediation) are discussed in this course. Engineering
and administrative controls required training (HAZWOPER), signs, written plans, work
practices (decontamination), and environmental management systems standards are
covered and environmental principles related to sustainable construction, building and
development are examined. Prerequisite: SAF-214. (3-0-3) *Course offered in 8-week
asynchronous online format.
354 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

SAF-318 - Training and Adult Education

SAF-402 - Construction Safety Management
This course will examine the use of financial principles, statistics, and performance
metrics and indicators as they apply to influencing project management and safety
outcomes in a construction setting. Management processes related to emergency,
crisis, disaster planning and business continuity with be explored and the role of
construction safety in the evaluation of cost, schedule, performance and risk will be
discussed. Specific programs requiring special consideration and training, such as
cranes, materials handling, confined spaces, fall protection, hazard communication,
control of hazardous energy, excavation/trenching/shoring, workplace violence and
physical security are covered. Prerequisite: SAF-120. (3-0-3) *Course offered in 8-week
asynchronous online format.
SAF-414 - Construction Risk Management
This course will examine risk management as a key component of a successful
construction safety program. Hazard identification, risk analysis, risk evaluation, risk
treatment, risk communication and risk monitoring and review concepts and tools will
be discussed as they relate to the development and implementation of effective hazard
prevention and mitigation during facility renovations, small- and large-scale construction
projects, and management of general industry contractors. Prevention through
Design (PtD) and sustainability in building practices and materials are highlighted in
this course. Prerequisite: SAF-316 and SAF-402. (3-0-3) *Course offered in 8-week
asynchronous online format.

This course will cover current issues in the construction industry that present unique
safety concerns for construction sites and personnel. Emphasis will be placed on
understanding current and emergent work exposure issues, such as silica, lead,
asbestos and nanotechnology. In addition, topics such as work site automation,
robotics, workplace violence, substance abuse, wellness programs and new
regulations will be discussed. Prerequisite: SAF-120. (3-0-3) *Course offered in 8-week
asynchronous online format.
SAF-455 - Construction Safety Senior Project
The student proposes, designs, and completes a construction industry safety-based
capstone project. Students write a report according to specifications. Prerequisite: SAF414 and CM-250. (3-0-3) *Course offered in 8-week asynchronous online format.
SAF-600 - Construction Safety Math & Metrics
This course presents a comprehensive study and review of chemistry, industrial hygiene
and other safety-related calculations, statistics and safety performance measurement
strategies used in professional safety practice with a special emphasis on use and
application in the construction industry. Discussion of the development of an effective
safety program using the collection and evaluation of qualitative and quantitative data

355 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

SAF-416 - Current Issues in Construction Safety

including the math, metrics and statistics required to make informed decisions will be
emphasized. Performance metrics and indicators will be explored to identify ways that
corrective actions can be taken before an accident or injury occurs. Prerequisite: None.
(3)
SAF-610 - Advanced Industrial Hygiene
This course provides an in-depth study of the field of industrial hygiene and
occupational health including biological, chemical and physical hazards and controls
in the context of the accomplishment of hazardous tasks within a changing work
environment. The concepts, terminology, and methodology used in the practice of
industrial hygiene and the identification and application of current resource materials
will be studied. The concepts to workplace exposure assessment and the selection and
application of the correct industrial hygiene calculations required to evaluate and select
appropriate hazard controls is part of this course. Prerequisite: SAF-600. (3)

This course covers the science and strategies related to the proper storage and
disposal of hazardous materials and wastes to prevent worker exposure and discharge
of pollutants to the environment. A review of the chemistry and industrial hygiene
calculations related to chemical reactions, corrosives, flammables, toxic materials
and related fire and explosion hazards is included. Assessment and control strategies
related to hazardous materials and wastes including exposure limits, routes of entry,
incompatibilities and reactivity, and acute and chronic exposures are covered. This
course is intended to facilitate the knowledge, skills and abilities to effectively make
and verbalize justifiable risk-based decisions related to hazardous waste and materials.
Prerequisite: SAF-600. (3)
SAF-630 - Advanced Environmental Management
This course studies environmental management regulations including the Clean Air
Act, Clean Water Act, Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure Rule, Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, Emergency Planning and Community Right-toKnow Act, Toxic Substances Control Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. Environmental management related to soil,
groundwater and storm water evaluation and permitting with emphasis on hazardous
materials (lead, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, mold), air emissions, demolition
debris, underground storage tanks and underground injection control will be covered.
Prerequisite: SAF-600. (3)
SAF-640 - Construction Ergonomics
This course studies ergonomic assessment and evaluation tools related to the
performance of on-site task assessment for construction activities and construction
site safety programs. Human factors, measurement and monitoring, risk factor
identification, and controls for common construction ergonomics issues such as back
injuries, upper extremity cumulative trauma disorders (CTDs), musculoskeletal disorders
356 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

SAF-620 - Advanced Hazardous Materials

(MSDs), repetitive motion injuries and whole-body vibration (WBV) will be examined.
The knowledge and skills to perform ergonomic job task analyses, devise injury
prevention strategies, and develop and implement innovative solutions will be included.
Prerequisite: SAF-600. (3)
SAF-650 - Specific Construction Hazards
This course examines safety programs, training and competencies for specific
construction hazards, such as excavation and trenching, heavy equipment operation,
fall protection, fire prevention and protection, emergency management, fleet safety,
hazardous energy control, cranes and rigging, mechanical and structural strength of
materials, welding/hot work and industrial hygiene monitoring of work tasks with a
high risk of exposure. Responding to unanticipated hazards due to changes in project
timelines, sequence of events, and the fast pace of some construction projects will
be discussed. Risk management and hazard control processes related to fall, struck
by, caught in/between, and electrical injuries are integrated into the discussion.
Prerequisite: None. (3)

This course examines the best practices, principles and approaches to preparing,
implementing and maintaining specific safety and health programs for the construction
work environment. Components of a comprehensive construction safety and health
program will be reviewed. The course will include safety requirements related to hazard
communication, PPE selection and use, tools, ladders, scaffolds, forklifts, respiratory
protection, lone/remote workers, system and process safety management, confined
space entry, fall protection, fire protection/prevention, hazardous energy control,
emergency management plans and life safety, drug and alcohol policies, workplace
violence, and fit for duty/medical monitoring. Prerequisite: SAF-650. (3)
SAF-670 - Advanced Safety Management Systems
This course focuses on the management of construction health and safety through the
life cycle of construction process through all its phases. From project inception through
design build review, processes during construction to demolition, or deconstruction/
modification of existing facilities. Examination of how a well-defined safety
management system can facilitate include selecting the appropriate risk management
and hazard control processes, informing emergency management and business
continuity decisions, assisting project management in achieving schedule, performance
and risk goals, and strengthening task-specific safety program components. A review of
available safety management system guidelines will be performed (i.e., ISO 45001, ANSI
Z10). Prerequisite: SAF-660. (3)
SAF-680 - Construction Risk Management Methods
This course studies how construction safety professionals can design, implement and
maintain safety programs and policies aimed at lowering risk, reducing job site injuries
and increasing workforce productivity. Risk management methods that help evaluate
357 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

SAF-660 - Construction Safety Program Development

tasks and job site conditions with the goal of anticipating and solving problems
before they result in an adverse impact to workers are examined. This course covers
subcontractor vetting options, bid and contract administration for safety expectations
and risk transfer, contractor compliance audit strategies, risk management tools and
tracking methods, and training and education in risk management (responsibility and
accountability, job safety analysis, near miss reporting and analysis, lessons learned
human performance initiatives, and task mindfulness). Prerequisite: SAF-670. (3)
SAF-700 - Safety in Facilities & Capital Construction
The course examines the selection and optimization of systems and controls for human
physiological benefits in the built environment, such as thermal comfort, ventilation, air
quality, lighting, and acoustic conditions. Prevention through Design, management of
change, life safety considerations, fire protection and prevention systems, and design
review for safety methods to ensure safety in the built environment are examined.
Safety during capital construction projects, including contractor vetting, multi-employer
worksite principles, safety training, management of special programs (confined space,
fall protection, hazardous energy control, physical security), protection of existing
facility employee populations, business continuity and emergency planning, incident
investigation, and site inspections/audits is included. Prerequisite: None. (3)

This course covers the best practices for development, delivery, and evaluation of
safety training related to employee onboarding, work site induction, mandatory safety
programs, task-specific competencies, and required safety program components for
workers including the consideration for training of temporary workers and day laborers.
Tools available for the preparation, delivery and evaluation of accurate, credible, clear
and practical safety training are covered. Proven adult learning theory and techniques,
assessment of worker competency, behavior and performance modification, data
collection, needs analysis and feedback methods are discussed. Methods for
successful interpersonal communication, mentoring, and facilitating successfully
informed and trained work teams are examined. Prerequisite: None. (3)
SAF-720 - Construction Safety Leadership
This course discusses current issues in construction safety management including
but not limited to professional ethics, management of change, influencing company
and project management teams, and building project and company safety culture.
Understanding essential leadership skills and techniques required to successfully
lead construction safety initiatives, such as strategic and financial management, risk
management, construction ethics, safety management, leadership, and championing
safety within construction productivity and cost constraints are examined. This course
relies on construction site and project case studies to discuss these topics. This course
is the capstone course for the M.S. in Construction Safety degree program. Prerequisite:
SAF-610, SAF-620, SAF-630, SAF-640, SAF-680, SAF-700, and SAF-710. (3)

358 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

SAF-710 - Training Performance and Evaluation

SAF-800 - Occupational Health & Safety Implications
The student will focus on studying the latest occupational health and safety
implications of the rapid infusion of new technology in the workplace. The student will
synthesize the growing effect of technology on safety, worker health, and potential
liabilities. The student will start identifying areas for extensive research and exploration.
(6)
SAF-810 - New Hazards to Occupational Health and Safety
The student will research the new material and robotic hazards proliferating in the
workplace. The student will build upon SAF-800 by refining and further developing their
research topic. (6)
SAF-820 - Advanced Research Methods for Occupational Health and Safety
The Chair will guide the doctoral student through advanced research methods for
Occupational Health and Safety. The student will incorporate these skills in their plan for
doctoral research. (6)
SAF-830 - Comprehensive Strategies for Occupational Health and Safety
The student will thoroughly analyze comprehensive strategies for the Occupational
Health and Safety field. The student will synthesize the full range of strengths,
weaknesses, and gaps in the existing comprehensive strategies in the workplace. The
student will incorporate the findings into their research plan. (6)

The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives,
milestones, and a timing plan. After the doctoral student’s Chair approves the proposal,
the student will then begin work according to the proposal and research plan. (6)
SAF-900 - Occupational Health and Safety Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. (6)
SAF-910 - Occupational Health and Safety Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 according to the approved proposal.
The student will also submit Chapters 1-3 to the Institutional Review Board (IRB) and
Academic Review Board (ARB). After receiving the necessary approvals, the student will
conduct data collection and analysis activities consistent with the research plan. (6)
SAF-920 - Occupational Health and Safety Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete

359 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

SAF-840 - Occupational Health & Safety Proposal

and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
SAF-930 - Occupational Health and Safety Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to the student’s
Chair and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their
research. The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete
document. The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document
to the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must
receive approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance
forward. (6)
SAF-940 – Occupational Health and Safety Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee, and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)

The student will focus on the study of the latest Supply Chain Management strategies,
tactics and developments. In an ever more technical world the data and cybersecurity
will be reviewed on a broader context. The student will synthesize the growing effect
of Supply Chain Management on current operations, international relationships and
effects on the field, and where there are areas of improvements or failings. The faculty
will directly support and mentor the exploration phase of the planning. This first class is
overviewing the bigger picture as the research scope is being formed. (6)
SCM-810 - Supply Chain Management Research Methods
Under a Chair and committee, a student will continue evaluating and develop research
methodologies and strategies suitable for understanding Supply Chain Management
and address the data sources, information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis or
research question. It is expected the student will be building upon SCM-800 in refining
and developing their research task and plan. (6)
SCM-820 - Supply Chain Management Future Demands
Under a Chair and committee, a student will further research the future demands in the
Supply Chain Management field and how these influence specific research questions.
Data collection and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Supply Chain
Management on the short, medium and long term. The literature review will be more
specific in focus and direction at this stage. (6)

360 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

SCM-800 - Supply Chain Management Research Background

SCM-830 - Strategies for Supply Chain Management
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the Supply Chain Management field under the direction of
their Chair/committee. A robust research plan and hypothesis and methodology will be
taking shape and direction. The topic will be reviewed to ensure the scope is not too
broad. (6)
SCM-840 - Supply Chain Management Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives
and include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research
milestones according to the proposal and research plan. The IRB and ARB will need to
be completed by this stage. (6)
SCM-900 - Supply Chain Management Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. The material for these
chapters will have been established in the SCM 800 series. Any disagreement within the
committee will be reviewed by the Dean of Doctoral Programs. (6)

The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 (methodology chapter that is robust
and identifies all implications) according to the approved proposal. After receiving the
necessary approvals, the student will conduct data collection and analysis activities
consistent with the research plan. (6)
SCM-920 - Supply Chain Management Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
SCM-930 - Supply Chain Management Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to their Chair
and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their research.
The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete document.
The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document to the
University Reviewers and DBA Review Board for approval. The student must receive
approval from the University Reviewers and DBA Review Board to advance forward. (6)
SCM-940 - Supply Chain Management Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and DBA Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
361 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

SCM-910 - Supply Chain Management Doctoral Writing II

the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
DBA Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
SCS-800 - Space Cybersecurity Research Background
The student will focus on the study of the latest Space Cybersecurity strategies,
tactics developments, and technology. The student will synthesize the growing need
for upgraded Space Cybersecurity on current and future operations in the field and
identify areas for improvement or failings. The focus will be to start identifying areas for
research and explore the background of Space Cybersecurity. The faculty will directly
support and mentor the exploration phase of the planning. (6)
SCS-810 - Space Cybersecurity Research Methodologies
Under a Chair and Committee, the student will continue evaluating and develop
research methodologies and strategies suitable for understanding Space Cybersecurity
and address the data sources, information, and intelligence to test a hypothesis or
research question, The student is expected to be building upon SCS-800 in refining and
developing their research task and plan. (6)

Under a Chair and Committee, a student will research the future demands in the Space
Cybersecurity field and how these influence specific research questions. Data collection
and applications will be central to evaluating Space Cybersecurity’s needs in the short,
medium, and long term. The literature review will be more specific in focus and direction
at this stage. (6)
SCS-830 - Strategies for Space Cybersecurity
The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive analysis of the strategies for
the growth and evolution of the Space Cybersecurity field under the direction of their
Chair and Committee. The student will produce a concise direction for research and a
draft methodology. (6)
SCS-840 - Space Cybersecurity Research Proposal
The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning (i.e., research topic, scope and aims, objectives, and timing plan). The doctoral
student will then complete the research milestones according to the proposal and
research plan. The student’s work will need to pass the IRB and ARB at this stage. (6)
SCS-900 - Space Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the proposal’s
boundaries and research plan. The student’s Chair and Committee will review Chapters
1-2. The Chair and Committee must approve the chapters for the student to advance.
The Dean of Doctoral Programs will review any disagreement within the committee. (6)

362 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

SCS-820 - Space Cybersecurity Future Demands

SCS-910 - Space Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 (methodology chapter that is robust
and identifies all implications) according to the approved proposal. After receiving the
necessary approvals, the student will conduct data collection and analysis activities
consistent with the research plan. (6)
SCS-920 - Space Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance. (6)
SCS-930 - Space Cybersecurity Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to their Chair
and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their research.
The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete document.
The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document to the
University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must receive
approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance forward. (6)

Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee, and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research. (6)
SE-301 - Software Engineering
Introduction to software design. Software performance, modularity, portability and
reliability. Students apply engineering principles to create software solutions to
specified problems. Software testing and CASE tools introduced. Emphasis on UML and
object-oriented code. Prerequisite: CS-220. Offered during Fall semester only. (2-2-3)
SE-321 - Human Computer Interaction
Students learn user-centered design of computer systems with the goal of high
usability. Emphasis is on designing systems that are efficient, easy-to-use, enjoyable
and effective. Explores the selection of interaction style, hardware, and the use of
color, font, text and images. Explores design implications due to user characteristics
such as age, dexterity, experience and disabilities. Students learn requirements
gathering, prototype building and user testing. A group project is assigned. Prerequisite:
Engineering degrees CS-130 or CS-150. Offered during Spring semester only. (3-0-3)
SE-351 - Software Testing
Covers the techniques and concepts required for software testing. Topics covered
363 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Courses

SCS-940 - Space Cybersecurity Doctoral Defense

include software testing at the unit, module, subsystem and system levels; coverage
criteria, manual and automated techniques for test validation and data generation;
formal testing processes and standards (with an emphasis on CMMI); rational tools
suite; inspections; black box vs. white box testing; functional testing; and testability
analysis. Prerequisites: CS-225 or CS-230 or CS-200. (2-2-3)
SE-457 - Senior Design Project I
Students/teams select a project, develop an understanding of the project scope that
includes research and documentation of related work, prepare a feasibility study,
develop project requirements (constraints) and engineering, software, and/or security
specifications, propose solutions and multiple designs, analyze proposed designs,
select a final proposed design, and prepare and present a preliminary design review
(PDR). Students are expected to apply proper systems engineering and project
management to their work. Additional components may be required in some projects.
Students/teams submit a final report at the end of the semester. Pre-requisite: Senior
standing. (3-0-3)
SE-458 - Senior Design Project II
Students/teams build and test their selected designs (completed in SE-457). Each
student team delivers a tested prototype and defends its project in front of a panel of
experts. Students/teams submit a final report that includes description of the design,
realization, and test processes as well as test results, discussion, and conclusion.
Failure to deliver a completed design and a working prototype that meets engineering,
software, and/or security specifications by the end of the semester may result in failing
the course. *Note: Course must be completed with a grade of “C” or higher to meet
undergraduate graduation requirements. Prerequisite: SE-457 (3-0-3)

This program is intended to provide students an alternate educational experience in
industry that provides education and training. The intern is under the supervision or
mentorship of an experienced professional. This course is only open to students who
have been authorized through specific industry partnerships. (3-0-3)
SP-358 - Internship Program
This is an elective course intended to provide students an alternate educational
experience in industry and government that complements and strengthens their
classroom education. Internship positions must be related to the students major and be
creative and analytical in nature, for a minimum of eight weeks. The intern is under the
supervision or mentorship of an experienced professional. Prerequisites: junior or senior
status. Cumulative GPA 2.8+ and 3.0+ in major. Approval of appropriate dean required.
(3-0-3)

364 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

SP-257 - Industry Internship Program

SP-359 - Internship Program II
This is the second of two elective courses intended to provide students an alternate
educational experience in industry and government that complements and strengthens
their classroom education. Prerequisites: junior or senior status. Cumulative GPA 2.8+
and 3.0+ in major. Approval of appropriate dean required. (3-0-3)
SP-400 - Special Topics in Business & Technology
Students are provided the opportunity to examine topics of special interest in the field
of business, management and technology. The student works in a guided study format
with a mentor. Permission is required from the instructor and the academic dean. This
course may be repeated with different projects. (3-0-3)
SS-171 - Introduction to Psychology
This course is a fundamental study of human behavior exploring such topics as
learning and cognition, memory, intelligence, motivation and emotion, consciousness,
personality, and abnormal behavior. A discussion of the scientific character of
psychology and the research methodology employed in the discipline will be included.
Prerequisite or Corequisite: EN-001 or EN-101. (3-0-3)
SS-175 - Introduction to Sociology
A survey of the basic concepts and principles of sociology; culture, human nature,
personality and the self, socialization, society, group behavior, norms and deviance, and
institutions. The topic of social problems will be addressed by an in-depth examination
of a contemporary issue. A primary text and newspapers, magazines and journals will
be used for this unit in addition to the textbook. Perquisite: EN-101. (3-0-3)

This course provides a comprehensive and integrated review of human development
from a psychological perspective. The lifespan model provides a coherent time-line
approach for students to study, observe, and reflect on personal life developments as
well as how relationships with individuals, families, and communities are integral to our
development as humans. Prerequisite or Corequisite: EN-101. (3-0-3)
SS-220 - Critical Thinking
This course explores the process of thinking critically and guides students in thinking
more clearly, insightfully and effectively. Concrete examples from personal experience
and contemporary issues help students develop the abilities to solve problems, analyze
arguments and issues, as well as make informed decisions in their academic career and
personal lives. Readings, structured writing assignments and ongoing discussions help
students develop sophisticated thinking abilities. Prerequisite: EN-102 (3-0-3)
SS-272 - Group Dynamics
This course focuses on interpersonal relations and skills development, cross-cultural
365 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

SS-181 - Human Development

relations and communication, organizational climate and culture and their relationship
to and impact on individuals and groups, personality traits and team building, and
characteristics and functions of groups in high-tech organizations both in the United
States and abroad. Corequisite: EN-102. (3-0-3)
SS275 - History of Modern Culture
This course offers students a review and survey of world history and how it affected
culture from 1946 to present through the use of the Internet. Students will learn the
important historical events during this time period and how they impacted society,
culture and politics. Students will learn major historical events, their geographical
location and their world impact. Students will select a subject and throughout the
semester be able to discuss their subject as it relates to the time period covered.
Students will be required to do oral and written presentations covering 1946 to modern
times. Corequisite: EN-101. (3-0-3)
SS-280 - Culture Through Literature
This is a survey course that is designed to give students an overview of diversity in
literature and its effect on social trend and culture traditions during the 20th century and
beyond. Students will read and research literature from minority U.S. authors and how
their writings affected both their respective minority communities as well as the culture
& society as a whole. Students will be required to read assigned books, make an oral
presentation and conduct research dealing with a diverse author and their literature. (30-3)
SS-301 - History of Technology

SS-351 - Ethics
This course is designed to help students improve their ability to make ethical decisions.
This is done by providing a framework that enables the student to identify, analyze, and
resolve ethical issues that arise when making decisions. Case analysis is a primary tool
of this course. Prerequisite: EN-102. (3-0-3)
SS-400 - Social Science: Special Topics
Research into social sciences. Student primarily works in a guided study format with a
mentor. Permission required from the instructor and academic dean. (3-0-3)
SUS-700 - Fundamentals of Graduate Research & Design
Project I will introduce the fundamentals of graduate research and design. The project
will focus on graduate level writing, APA style, and the fundamentals of scientific inquiry.

366 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

This is a survey course designed to give students an overall view of the development
and effect of technology on American economic trends, social trends and cultural
traditions through critical analysis. The focus is on the early twentieth century to the
present day. Prerequisite: EN-102. (3-0-3)

The project will cover the areas of technology research, ethics of research, the stages of
the research process, conceptualization and operationalization of research questions,
data collection techniques, analytics, an Introduction to qualitative and quantitative
methods and measurement, a discussion of program evaluation research, and research
proposal development. (6)
SUS710 - Ethics & Philosophy of Research & Data Collection
This course will address the ethics of conducting scholarly research. The discussion
of research ethics will include, but not be limited to, informed consent, protecting
anonymity of participants, and ethical participant protocols. Discussions will address
the limits of researchers’ obligations, along with providing a detailed look at the process
of applying for Institutional Review Board approval. This project will provide students
with an overview of the range of data collection methods available to individuals
undertaking research and to enable the student to consider the implications, application
strengths and weaknesses of the various data collection methods. The module will also
provide insight into the ways that such methods may be applied effectively and ethically
in research. (6)
SUS-715 - Sustainability Research Proposal
Under a Chair, a student will further research the future demands in the Sustainability
field and how these influence specific research questions. Data collection and
applications will be central to evaluating the needs of sustainability in the wider context
on the short, medium and long term to tackle environmental concerns. The literature
review will be more specific and extensive in focus and direction at this stage. The ARB
will be completed at this stage. (6)

The student will develop a research methodology based on the literature, needs
and research problem. A formal application for IRB approval is needed that is
comprehensive in detail and planning. The student will then complete the research data
collection necessary to start the analysis stage. (6)
SUS-735 - Sustainability Thesis & Defense
The student will analyze the data collected and produce the analysis, conclusions
and recommendations. The Thesis will be written, reviewed and approved prior to
the defense of the work. The Chair and committee will be at the defense and upon
satisfactory presentation and defense a grade will be awarded accordingly. (6)
SUS-800 - Sustainability Research Background
The student will focus on the study of the latest Sustainability concepts strategies,
tactics, environmental demands and developments. The student will synthesize the
growing effect of Sustainability on current operations, international relationships and
effects on the field, and where there are areas of improvements or failings. The faculty

367 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

SUS-725 - Sustainability Research & Data Collection

will directly support and mentor the exploration phase of the planning. Prerequisite:
None.
SUS-810 - Sustainability Research Methodologies
Under a Chair and committee, a student will continue evaluating and develop research
methodologies and strategies suitable for understanding Sustainability in the global
perspective and address the data sources, information, and intelligence to test a
hypothesis or research question. It is expected the student will be building upon SUS800 in refining and developing their research task and plan.
SUS-820 - Sustainability for Future Demands
Under a Chair and committee, a student will further research the future demands in the
Sustainability field and how these influence specific research questions. Data collection
and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Sustainability on the short,
medium and long term. The literature review will be more specific in focus and direction
at this stage.
SUS-830 - Strategies for Sustainability
Under a Chair and committee, a student will further research the future demands in the
Sustainability field and how these influence specific research questions. Data collection
and applications will be central to evaluating the needs of Sustainability on the short,
medium and long term. The literature review will be more specific in focus and direction
at this stage.

The student will produce a proposal for research that is comprehensive in detail and
planning. The proposal will address the research topic, scope and aims, objectives
and include a timing plan. The doctoral student will then complete the research
milestones according to the proposal and research plan. The IRB and ARB will need to
be completed by this stage.
SUS-900 - Sustainability Doctoral Writing I
The student will compose and complete Chapters 1 and 2 within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. Chapters 1-2 will be reviewed by the student’s Chair and
Committee and must be approved for the student to advance. The material for these
chapters will have been established in the SUS 800 series. Any disagreement within the
committee will be reviewed by the Dean of Doctoral Programs.
SUS-910 - Sustainability Doctoral Writing II
The student will compose and complete Chapter 3 (methodology chapter that is robust
and identifies all implications) according to the approved proposal. After receiving the
necessary approvals, the student will conduct data collection and analysis activities
consistent with the research plan.

368 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

SUS-840 - Sustainability Research Proposal

SUS-920 - Sustainability Doctoral Writing III
The student will compose and complete Chapter 4. The student will provide a complete
and substantive presentation of the research results in Chapter 4. The student’s Chair
and Committee must review and approve Chapter 4 for the student to advance.
SUS-930 - Sustainability Doctoral Writing IV
The student will compose and complete Chapter 5 and submit the work to the student’s
Chair and Committee. The student will also finalize all required elements of their
research. The student’s Chair and Committee must review and approve the complete
document. The student’s Chair and Committee will then submit the complete document
to the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board for approval. The student must
receive approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board to advance
forward.
SUS-940 - Sustainability Doctoral Defense
Upon approval from the University Reviewers and Ph.D. Review Board, the student will
prepare and deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend
the same through viva voce (i.e., oral examination). The student’s Chair, Committee and
Ph.D. Review Board will confer to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and
necessary final oral defense of the research.
TC-110 - Intro to Telecommunications

TC-312 - Voice Over Internet Protocol
This course offers students a hands-on approach for learning how Voice Over IP works,
how it’s planned and how it’s implemented. The students will be expected to complete
a series of labs on equipment and simulators to build shared data and voice networks.
Students will work with specialized high performance networking equipment such as
phones and switches that primarily support three functions. Students will configure
VLAN networks to support the VOIP infrastructure. The commercial software such
as Cisco Communication Manager Express (CME) and Cisco Unified Communication
Manager (CUCM) will be used. Prerequisite: CT-240 or equivalent. (2-2-3)
TC-319 - Network Infrastructure Security
This course focuses on how to secure network infrastructures through hands on labs,
since many attacks are geared to degrade, compromise and even disable network
infrastructures. Some of the tasks covered will be the securing of network switches

369 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Telecommunications defined and its effects on our daily lives. Structure of the
telecommunications industry. Brief history. Basic terminology. Type of analog and
digital communications systems. Data communications and networking. Introduction
to local area networks, and wide area networks. Microwave and cellular systems.
Satellite systems. Internet and its structure, World Wide Web, website technology and
terminology. (2-2-3)

and routers, their configurations and secure deployment, encryption of traffic and
deployment of VPN. In addition, the labs will help students be competent in configuring
firewalls such as ASA routers. Prerequisite CT-240. (1-3-3)
TC-359 - Networking Modeling & Design
A continuation of TC-309 where students are expected to design, model, simulate and
analyze networks to meet real-world situations. Networks are designed and tested for
traffic handling capabilities and robustness. Alternate network solutions are proposed
and tested. Virtual simulation software is used throughout the course. Prerequisites: CT240 and MA-128 (1-3-3)
TC-400 - Special Projects in Telecommunications
This course is a guided study project course in which students research a problem in
the field of telecommunications under the guidance of a professor or member of the
academic staff. Students are required to produce a final written and oral presentation of
their effort. (0-6-3)
TC-401 - Advanced Topics in Telecommunications
Layered protocol models. Ethernet, TCP/IP with mathematical throughput analysis.
SMTP, POP, HTTP analyzed using Ethereal. Number theory, encryption and
authentication. The RSA algorithm. Routing algorithms (RIP, OSPF). Optimal capacity
assignment. Laboratory exercises performed using actual constructed networks
(Windows/Linux) and virtual networks (in VMWare). Prerequisites: CT-152 and MA-128
or equivalent. (2-2-3)

Technical analysis of a telecommunications system, operational analysis of on-site
facilities. Students produce a technical document suitable for publishing. Students may
elect to take EE-458 in place of TC-458, but must inform the EE-458 instructor and do a
communications-oriented project.
TEC-700 - Project 1: Fundamentals of Graduate Research & Design
Project I will introduce the fundamentals of graduate research and design. The project
will focus on graduate level writing, APA style, and the fundamentals of scientific inquiry.
The project will cover the areas of technology research, ethics of research, the stages of
the research process, conceptualization and operationalization of research questions,
data collection techniques, analytics, an introduction to qualitative and quantitative
methods and measurement, a discussion of program evaluation research, and research
proposal development. (6)
TEC-710 - Project 2: Ethics & Philosophy of Research & Data Collection
Project II will address the ethics of conducting scholarly research. The discussion
of research ethics will include, but not be limited to, informed consent, protecting

370 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

TC-458 - Senior Design Project in Telecommunications

anonymity of participants, and ethical participant protocols. Discussions will address
the limits of researchers’ obligations, along with providing a detailed look at the process
of applying for Institutional Review Board approval. This project will provide students
with an overview of the range of data collection methods available to individuals
undertaking research and to enable the student to consider the implications, application
strengths and weaknesses of the various data collection methods. The module will also
provide insight into the ways that such methods may be applied effectively and ethically
in research. (6)
TEC-720 - Project 3: Qualitative & Quantitative Research Design
Project III introduces the main research designs used in qualitative research. In addition
to covering conceptual and epistemological issues associated with qualitative research
design, the course introduces a range of qualitative research techniques. The strengths
and limitations of various qualitative designs are explored with emphasis on issues
of reliability, validity and representativeness. This project also introduces the main
research designs used in quantitative research. In addition to covering conceptual and
epistemological issues associated with quantitative research, the course introduces
a range of techniques used in quantitative research. The strengths and limitations of
various quantitative designs are explored with emphasis on issues of reliability, validity
and representativeness. (6)

Project IV covers the basic concepts of probability, common distributions, statistical
methods, data analysis, developing a critical approach to the analysis of contingency
tables, examining the basic ideas and methods of generalized linear models, linking
logit and log-linear methods with generalized linear models, and developing basic
facility in the analysis of discrete data using SAS, R, and Python. The project will also
cover operations research techniques and their application to decision making such
as mathematical optimization, networks modeling, stochastic modeling, and multiobjective modeling. Other topics covered include computer simulation, decision analysis
using decision trees, and quantitative value functions. The project will culminate with
visualization techniques. Students will learn different means of combating information
overload as well as visual encoding as a method to supplant cognitive calculations with
simpler perceptual inferences, improve comprehension, memory, and decision making.
(6)
TEC-740 - Project V: Capstone Project
Project V is the Capstone project. This project provides an opportunity for students
to undertake an extensive piece of academic writing based on original research
conducted by the student. The research will be supervised by a faculty member and
must be defended through oral examination. The thesis is a medium to demonstrate
the student’s understanding of research methods as applied to a topic of the student’s
selection. Students may also use this class to begin the prospectus for doctoral studies.
(6)

371 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

TEC-730 - Project 4: Applied Statistics, Analysis, Decision & Visualization

TEC-800 - Writing the Doctoral Proposal I
Project I. The student and the student’s Committee will work to produce a proposal for
research that is comprehensive in detail and planning. The proposal will address the
research topic, scope and aims, objectives and a timing plan. Further, the skill set of the
student will be evaluated by the committee and recommendations may be made to the
PhD Review Board to address deficiencies. (6)
TEC-810 - Writing the Doctoral Proposal II
Project II. The student will work to complete research milestones related to chapter one
of their research according to the proposal and research plan. The prospective chapter
will be reviewed by the student’s Committee for approval prior to advancing to the next
phase in the program. (6)
TEC-820 - Writing the Doctoral Proposal III
Project III. The student will undertake a robust and comprehensive literature review,
equivalent in scope and aim to a dissertation chapter two, within the boundaries of the
proposal and research plan. The prospective chapter will be reviewed by the student’s
Committee for approval prior to advancing to the next phase in the program. (6)
TEC-830 - Writing the Doctoral Proposal IV
Project IV. Students will complete the research milestones associated with chapter
three of the research. Further, students will finalize Institutional Review Board and
Academic Review Board documentation. All research materials will be reviewed by the
student’s Committee and, upon reaching approval consensus, the committee will notify
the PhD Review Board of the student advancing to proposal oral defense status. (6)

Project V. Upon approval from the Institutional Review Board, Academic Review Board,
and PhD Review Board, the student will prepare a presentation for oral defense of the
research proposal, research plan, and initial chapters of the dissertation. The PhD
Review Board and Dissertation Committee will evaluate both the student’s proposal
oral defense as well as the student’s potential to complete the next phases of original
research. (6)
TEC-900 - Doctoral Research Preparation I
Project VI. After receiving the necessary approvals, the student will conduct data
collection and analysis activities consistent with the research plan. A complete and
substantive presentation of the research results will be produced, equivalent to a
dissertation chapter four. The student’s Committee will review and approve related
research materials. (6)
TEC-910 - Doctoral Research Preparation II
Project VII. The student will compose a draft research document in the appropriate
372 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

TEC-840 - Doctoral Proposal Oral Defense

form consisting of five chapters and submit the draft to the student’s Committee. The
student’s Committee will review and approve related research materials. The student
will make any required changes. (6)
TEC-920 - Doctoral Research Preparation III
Project VIII. The student will finalize the research document consisting of five chapters.
The student’s Committee will submit chapters four and five to university reviewers for
approval. During Project VIII, the student is required to make the recommended changes
and re-submit to the student’s Committee; the student’s Committee will re-submit to the
university reviewers for final approval. (6)
TEC-930 - Doctoral Research Preparation IV
Project IX. The student will finalize the research document consisting of five chapters
and will submit the document to the student’s Committee. Upon review and approval,
the student’s Committee will notify the PhD Review Board of the student’s readiness
for oral defense. The student will be responsible for preparing the oral defense and
submitting for approval. (6)
TEC-950 - Doctoral Presentation and Oral Defense
Project X. Upon approval from the PhD Review Board, the student will prepare and
deliver an oral presentation summarizing the body of research and defend such
through oral examination. The student’s committee and PhD Review Board will confer
to determine if the student has provided a sufficient and necessary oral defense of the
research. (6)

This course presents an introduction to Unmanned and Autonomous Systems
operations. This includes a historical perspective and background information of
this system including: modeling and control fundamentals, ground based systems,
visual and electro-optical aspects of navigation, obstacle and terrain avoidance
systems, modular on-board processing systems, and current applications. This course
also exposes students to the significant regulations impacting unmanned systems
operations. Prerequisite: None. (3-0-3)
UAS-102 - Mechanics of Unmanned and Autonomous Systems
This course will provide the student an understanding of the component systems
common to most Unmanned and Autonomous Systems with an emphasis on effective
integration and operations. The course focuses on the core technologies and includes
examinations of the control systems, power plants (motors), servos/actuators, power
sources, and communication technologies utilized in unmanned systems. Prerequisite:
None. (3-0-3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee of $350
UAS-110 - Air Traffic Control Communications

373 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

UAS-101 - Intro to Unmanned & Autonomous Systems

This course presents an overview of the history of air traffic control, air traffic control
tower procedures, radar systems, radar separation, radio communications and
techniques, flight plan clearances, traffic management and emergency procedures and
priority handling survey. Prerequisite: UAS-101, UAS-102. (3-0-3)
UAS-120 - Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Operator Certification
The course will develop the student’s knowledge and skills that are needed to safely
exercise the privileges and responsibilities of a Remote Aircraft Pilot. Course content
includes instruction in aerodynamics, aircraft systems, FAA regulations, U.S. Airspace
System, weight and balance, aircraft performance, aviation weather, flight publications,
radio navigation, cross-country planning and navigation, basic flight physiology, and
flight safety. This course will develop the student’s knowledge and skill needed to
manage and operate small unmanned aircraft systems. Flight activities will include
launch and recovery operations, emergency procedures, plus mission planning and
execution. Students must complete the appropriate flight lessons to satisfactorily
complete the course. Prerequisite: None (4-0-4). NOTE: Students enrolled in this course
incur an additional lab fee of $500.
UAS-130 - Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Safety Management Systems
This course presents an overview of related unmanned and autonomous safety
topics, including current safety issues, the role of federal agencies, accident statistics,
causes of accidents, human factors, crew resource management skills, and accident
prevention. Prerequisite: UAS-101 and UAS-102. (3-0-3)

This course provides an overview of the principles used in the design and operation
of unmanned and autonomous systems (UAS) to support applications in air, ground,
water, and space environments. The platform, sensors, power plant, control, and
communications systems that are required in unmanned and autonomous systems will
be explored with respect to function and interaction. The student will conduct a detailed
examination of the components of unmanned systems and the critical parts played
in operations. Topics include component capabilities, limitations, selection, overall
system design concepts, criticality to system function, and applications in the civilian,
commercial, and military fields. Prerequisite: None. (3-0-3)
UAS-150 - Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Crew Planning
This course is an introduction to the concepts and principles of crew resource
management (CRM) in unmanned systems. Topics include human performance in
crews, communication, decision making, situational awareness, workload management,
team building, and human-machine interaction. The relationships of CRM principles
will be explored in air, land, and water type vehicles. Additionally, contrasts of manned
and unmanned systems and the essential coordination of unmanned and autonomous
systems teams will be explored in-depth. Prerequisite: UAS-140. (3-0-3)

374 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

UAS-140 - Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Operations

UAS-201 - Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Sensors
This course covers payload systems capable of being installed on air (UAV), ground
(UGV), and water-based vehicles (UMV). The student will gain an understanding
of various sensory payloads and appropriate applications that may be used on
multiple platform types. The student will learn to select sensors depending upon
mission requirements, platform capabilities, data types, and environmental impacts.
An introduction will be made to tools for data analysis after capture and storage.
Prerequisite: UAS-101, UAS-102. (3-0-3)
UAS202 - Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Ground Vehicles
This course provides the principles and concepts of unmanned and autonomous
vehicles used for ground applications. Students will explore the problems of perception,
navigation, communications, control, sensors and payloads, and fundamentals of
locomotion in the environments found on the land. The capabilities and limitations
will be examined and the student will be able to select the appropriate platform types
and sensors to meet application requirements. Current trends such as driverless cars,
autonomous buses and trains, and agricultural vehicles will be highlighted with the most
successful systems and their technologies. Corequisite: UAS-140. (3-0-3)

This course provides the principles and concepts essential to the design and operation
of unmanned and autonomous systems (UAS) and their subsystems. Communications,
components, and networking are explored as the infrastructure to ensure system and
subsystem interoperability. Students will examine technologies dealing with facets of
mobile computing platforms, machine-learning, network protocols and communication
systems to support intra-system and inter-system coordination. Topics include system
requirements, constraints, dependability, regulations, communications, cybersecurity,
avionics and sensors. Prerequisite: UAS-140. (3-0-3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this
course incur an additional lab fee of $350
UAS-220 - Intro to Processing Remote Sensed Data
Students are introduced to basic theory, history, and practical applications of remote
sensing technology, with an emphasis on high spatial resolution multispectral aerial
imagery collected using unmanned aircraft systems. Other topics include geographic
information systems, aerial image interpretation, sensor resolution, orthomosaicing,
georegistration, vegetation indices, and image classification. Prerequisite: UAS-201. (30-3)
UAS0-230 - Unmanned Surface & Underwater Vehicles
This course provides the principles and concepts of unmanned and autonomous
vehicles used for water applications where unique challenges for mobile robotic
systems are encountered. Students will explore the problems of perception, navigation,
communications, control, sensory payloads, and fundamentals of propulsion in the

375 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

UAS-210 - Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Design

water environment. The capabilities and limitations will be examined and the student
will be able to select the appropriate platform types and sensors to meet application
requirements. Applications explored include both surface and underwater functions
in the civilian, commercial and military fields. Prerequisite: UAS-140. (3-0-3) NOTE:
Students enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee of $350
UAS-240 - Unmanned Space Vehicles
This course provides the principles and concepts of unmanned and autonomous
vehicles used for space applications. The challenges of space as an environment,
navigation, time, and distance will be included as essential elements of overall space
exploration via unmanned and autonomous systems. Students will explore the problems
of perception, space navigation, communications, control, sensors and payloads, time
delay, and fundamentals of propulsion and motion in space. Capabilities and limitations
of multiple platform types will be examined and the student will be able to select the
appropriate platform types and payloads to meet mission and application requirements.
Applications explored include earth orbital, interplanetary, solar system, and planetary/
celestial body exploration. Prerequisite: UAS-150, UAS-220. (3-0-3)
UAS-250 - Unmanned Vehicle Environments

UAS-310 - Unmanned Vehicle Missions
This course exposes the student to the concepts and principles of mission planning
for leaders, operators, communicators, and data analysts involved in unmanned and
autonomous systems (UAS). The student will gain an understanding of the processes in
the missions of UAS including planning, execution, acquisition, processing, analysis, and
dissemination. This course also addresses the suitability of unmanned technologies to
support common missions such as law enforcement, hazardous materials detection,
natural disaster assessment, border patrol, agriculture survey, search and rescue, crop
improvement, transportation inspections, utility inspections, weather observation,
monitoring of renewable energy sources, and others. Prerequisite: UAS-101, UAS-102
(3-0-3)
UAS-320 - Unmanned Vehicle Business Decisions
This course provides students an overview of the business aspects of unmanned
376 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

This course presents the challenges to unmanned and autonomous systems (UAS)
encountered in their operational capacities. The student is exposed to the aspects
of extreme environments where the vehicles and communications must operate in
all conditions. The presence of adverse factors and disturbances could disrupt the
function of the communications and controllers and lead to significant degradation
of performance, causing instability and possible damages. Students learn to match
platform capabilities, communications abilities, and payloads with the mission
requirements to meet the demands of a variety of environments. The students develop
an understanding of extreme or uncertain environments, the limitations inflicted on UAS
systems, and possible methods to overcome them. Prerequisite: UAS-140. (3-0-3)

and autonomous systems (UAS) and methods of making better informed decisions.
Students will explore multiple commercial business problems, define requirements,
and design solutions based on system capabilities, business need, costs, productivity,
regulatory restrictions, safety, and risk. Business cases will be reviewed for aerial,
ground, and water UAS. Prerequisite: UAS-120, UAS-310. (3-0-3)
UAS-330 - Unmanned Systems Crew Resource Management
Principles of organizational behavior, interpersonal relationship skills, and critical
behavioral dynamics used by Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) crews. Information
processing, Human Error, Communications Processes, Problem Solving, Workload
Management, and Situational Awareness with particular attention given to dealing with
teleoperation and automation in UAS application. (3-0-3)
UAS-410 - Unmanned Vehicle Laws & Regulations
This course introduces students to laws and regulations related to unmanned and
autonomous systems (UAS) operations. The issues of local, state, federal, and
international laws and agreements are presented with regard to aerial, ground, water,
and space environments. Aspects of vehicle operation, sensor operation, ethics,
dominion, jurisdiction, privacy, and security will be highlighted. Prerequisite: UAS-320.
(3-0-3)
UAS-420 - Data Acquisition & Post-processing
Students build upon the basic image processing skills gained in the previous course,
expanding their knowledge of common aerial image data processing tasks using
industry-standard software packages. Aerial data collection methodologies are
introduced, including consideration of aerial mission flight parameters. Prerequisite:
UAS-220. (3-0-3)

This course combines the science of data visualization for Unmanned and Autonomous
Systems (UAS) with the art of graphic design to help you communicate complex
information more accurately and effectively. By transforming UAS data sets into
visual graphics—such as charts, bar graphs, scatterplots, and heatmaps—you can
make complex ideas more easily accessible and understandable. Through hands-on
exercises, students will explore the many types of data in use today, learn how people
perceive different graphical displays, and create visual presentations that make a
stronger impact on your audience. Students will learn how to translate simple and
complex data into effective visual displays, communicate more precisely by pinpointing
the most relevant information, and apply effective methods for analyzing, presenting,
and using statistical data. Students will also learn to identify the strengths and
weaknesses of different data visualization approaches and avoid creating misleading
representations of data—and being misled by others. Prerequisite: UAS-420. (3-0-3)

377 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

UAS-430 - UAS Data Visualization & Presentation

UAS-457 - Senior Design Project I
Students/teams select a project, develop an understanding of the project scope that
includes research and documentation of related work, prepare a feasibility study,
develop project requirements (constraints) and engineering, software, and/or security
specifications, propose solutions and multiple designs, analyze proposed designs,
select a final proposed design, and prepare and present a preliminary design review
(PDR). Students are expected to apply proper systems engineering and project
management to their work. Additional components may be required in some projects.
Students/teams submit a final report at the end of the semester. Pre-requisite: Senior
standing. (3-0-3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this course incur an additional lab fee of
$350
UAS-458 - Senior Design Project II
Students/teams build and test their selected designs (completed in 457). Each student
team delivers a tested prototype and defends its project in front of a panel of experts.
Students/teams submit a final report that includes description of the design, realization,
and test processes as well as test results, discussion, and conclusion. Failure to deliver
a completed design and a working prototype that meets engineering, software, and/
or security specifications by the end of the semester may result in failing the course.
*Note: Course must be completed with a grade of “C” or higher to meet undergraduate
graduation requirements. Prerequisite: UAS-457 (3-0-3) NOTE: Students enrolled in this
course incur an additional lab fee of $350

The course will develop the student’s knowledge and skills that are needed to safely
exercise the privileges and responsibilities of a Remote Operations Pilot. This course
will develop the student’s knowledge and skill needed to operate small unmanned
aircraft systems and take the FAA UAS initial aeronautical knowledge exam. Course
content includes Federal Aviation Regulations, airspace authorization criteria, and
operational approval requirements. Operational skills will be acquired through both
classroom and hands-on flight activities. Students must complete the appropriate UAS
flight lessons to satisfactorily to complete the course. Prerequisite: None (1.5)
UAS-501 - Introduction to Unmanned and Autonomous Systems
This course provides an overview of unmanned and autonomous systems (UAS) and
their subsystems as critical elements in their application to civilian, commercial, and
military fields. The students will explore case studies in aerial, ground, water and
space environments and examine mission requirements, selection standards, limiting
factors, and regulatory issues. Emphasis is on the total system including reliability,
maintainability, system support, and total system performance toward fulfillment of
user needs and results in the operational environment. Prerequisite: None. (3)

378 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

UAS-500 - UAS Operator Certification

UAS-502 - Unmanned & Autonomous Vehicle Systems
This course provides an overview of theory and practice of unmanned and autonomous
vehicle systems, including hardware, software, command, control, and communication
(C3) structures of mobile robotic systems development. Topics include an overview
of platforms (including land, air, marine, and space platforms), actuators and motion
control, sensors and perception (including GPS, inertial, magnetic, active ranging,
computer vision, photo detectors, and encoders), planning and navigation (including
reactive, deliberative, and hybrid approaches to autonomy). Case studies, readings from
current literature, and guest lectures present best practices in the field. The course
includes a microprocessor-based project. Prerequisite: None. (3)
UAS-510 - Unmanned Systems Autonomy & Automation
This course provides students with an opportunity to examine the benefits, limitations,
and capabilities of autonomous control technology and support for unmanned systems.
The student will examine and evaluate elements, components, technology, and
processing methods associated with autonomous and semi-autonomous operation
of unmanned systems. The content of the course includes supported capabilities,
reference framework, man-machine collaboration, cognitive capability, interaction
and manipulation, allocation of functions and responsibilities, high-level tradeoffs,
limitations, and associated advancements. This course prepares students to better
understand the implications and capabilities associated with autonomy in unmanned
systems. It will include examinations of associated technology, programming,
processing, and interoperability required to understand the application of autonomy and
automation. Prerequisite: UAS-502. (3)

This course provides the student with an understanding of the complexities of sensory
operations and data processing in unmanned and autonomous systems (UAS). The
student will examine multiple sensory devices including their capabilities, acquisition
rates, and constraints as factors of device selection. The issues of data acquisition,
formats, storage, processing, and communications within the vehicle, the system, and
between multiple systems will be explored. Prerequisite: UAS-502. (3)
UAS-530 - User Interface for Design & Evaluation
This course introduces user interfaces for unmanned and autonomous systems through
designing, implementing, and evaluating human-computer interfaces of various types.
It focuses on the emerging field of human-robot interaction (HRI) which comprises
a multitude of disciplines including: robotics, artificial intelligence, human factors,
human computer interaction and cognitive psychology. Topics include: Approaches to
human-system interactions for unmanned systems including graphical user interfaces,
non-visual feedback (haptic, aural, etc.), gesture-based controls, voice-based controls,
telepresence, interaction and architectures, programming languages, metrics, social
robotics, emotions, frameworks and relations between perception, actuation and HRI.

379 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

UAS-520 - Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Sensing, Perception, Processing

Includes hands-on experience with one or multiple user interface technologies. The
theoretical foundation for designing interfaces is complemented by practical classroom
exercises and the design and development of a prototype in a team-based setting using
previously learned principles. Prerequisite: UAS-502. (3)
UAS-640 - Data Analysis & Visualization
This course is an introduction to key design principles and techniques for interactively
visualizing data. Includes the review, design, planning, analysis and statistical
interpretation of data to support unmanned and autonomous applications. The major
goals of this course are to understand how visual representations can help in the
analysis and understanding of complex data, how to design effective visualizations, and
how to create interactive visualizations using modern web-based frameworks. Students
will build on statistical theory and learn advanced techniques that can be applied to
problem solving, research analysis and numerical interpretation of data. In addition,
students will learn basic visualization design and evaluation principles, and learn how
to acquire, parse, and analyze large datasets. Students will also learn techniques for
visualizing multivariate, temporal, text-based, geospatial, hierarchical, and network/
graph-based data. Additionally, students will utilize software tools to prototype many
of these techniques on existing datasets. Students must have some previous statistics
course or experience. Prerequisite: UAS-520. (3)

This course will survey the rapidly evolving field of the law and public policy governing
the use of autonomous systems of all types of Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS)
in the National Airspace (NAS). The course will proceed based on six “modules”
addressing various aspects of the new field of UAS and autonomous vehicle Law. These
modules are: (1) Emerging FAA Regulatory Framework; (2) Government Use of UAS,
autonomous systems, and the Fourth Amendment; (3) State Regulation of Government
and Commercial autonomous systems; (4) Tort Liability for autonomous and UAS
Operations; (5) Emerging Frameworks for autonomous systems and Privacy; and (6)
Overview of Intellectual Property Issues for the unmanned and autonomous industry.
Upon successful completion of the course, the student will have a working knowledge
of the legal issues relevant to the autonomous vehicle and UAS industry. Prerequisite:
None. (3)
UAS-660 - Safety Management Systems & Unmanned and Autonomous Systems
Cybersecurity
Overview of related unmanned and autonomous safety topics, including current safety
issues, the role of federal agencies, accident statistics, causes of accidents, human
factors, crew resource management skills, and accident prevention. The course
discusses the safety requirements, hazard and risk analysis, failure modes and effect
analysis, fault tolerance, basics of hardware and software reliability, levels of integrity,
nature of faults and redundancy, and issues of verification, validation and certification.
Cybersecurity issues pertinent to computer-based infrastructure, mobile robotics, and
the information-driven nature of unmanned and autonomous ventures. Topics include
380 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

UAS- 650 - Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Laws, Regulations and Policy

threats, assumptions, assurance, confidentiality, integrity, availability, access control
matrix and policies, security models, requirements imposed by policies, protection
models, covert channels, formal methods for security, intrusion detection, auditing, and
other issues associated with dynamic and vehicular systems. Prerequisite: UAS-502. (3)
UAS-670 - Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Management for Managers
This course provides the student an understanding of planning, scheduling, and
managing unmanned and autonomous projects. Course includes roles, responsibilities,
administrative procedures, cost control, documentation, quality control, and
applications. This course introduces concepts of leadership, organizational and
technical management which are approached from a complex systems perspective
to explain the behavior of autonomous and semi-autonomous systems. This course
addresses the fundamental principles of system management and explores issues
related to effective technical planning, scheduling and assessment of technical
progress, and identifying the unique challenges of the technical aspects of autonomous
systems and the ability to control them. Topics will include techniques for life cycle cost,
performance measurement, modern methods of effective project management, quality
management, risk management, functional analysis, and communications. Prerequisite:
UAS-650. (3)

The Capstone Project is the culminating effort of the student’s entire learning
experience. The student will complete a comprehensive exam that provides significant
evidence of experience in unmanned and autonomous systems studies, master’s
level thesis and research project (with submission of a final report, approval by a
thesis committee, and an oral defense of the research work), or a project resulting in
fabrication of a prototype and publication of refereed article. Students will work with
designated faculty to formulate, develop, and complete the project, thesis, or exam. The
completion of the Capstone Course is designed to document significant evidence that
all Program Outcomes have been met and provide the student evidence of experience to
show to current and prospective employers. This Capstone Course must be taken at the
end of the student’s degree program. Should be taken in next to last term. (3)
UAS-720 – Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Capstone Project II
The Capstone Project is the culminating effort of the student’s entire learning
experience. The student will complete a comprehensive exam that provides significant
evidence of experience in unmanned and autonomous systems studies master’s
level thesis and research project (with submission of a final report, approval by a
thesis committee, and an oral defense of the research work), or a project resulting in
fabrication of a prototype and publication of refereed article. Students will work with
designated faculty to formulate, develop, and complete the project, thesis, or exam. The
completion of the Capstone Course is designed to document significant evidence that
all Program Outcomes have been met and provide the student evidence of experience to
show to current and prospective employers. This Capstone Course must be taken at the
end of the student’s degree program. Pre- or Corequisite: UAS-710. (3)
381 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

UAS-710 - Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Capstone Project I

Resources
Board of Trustees
Chairman
André Mendes
Chief Information Officer, U.S. Department of Commerce

Treasurer
J. Kelly Brown, Jr.
CEO, Template Software, Inc.

President
Bradford L. Sims, PhD
Capitol Technology University

Members
Reginald Daniel
President/CEO
BITHGROUP Technologies, Inc.

Ryan Higgins
Chief Information Security Officer and Deputy Chief Information Officer
Department of Commerce
Mahesh Kalva
President and CTO
AmeriinfoVets, Inc.
Marianne Meins
Vice President
Converged Environment
Craig Otto
Advertising and Marketing Executive

382 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Rebeca Hassan
Information Management
International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Jonathan Patrick
Program Manager
Global Leader Organization in Integration/applications of IT, Engineering & Science
Michael Plass
Vice President and Director, Systems Integration
U.S. Federal Government Markets Division, Motorola Solutions Sales and Services, Inc.
Eliot M. Shatzman
Senior Vice President, Wealth Management
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc.
Senior Financial Advisor
Portfolio Management
Brig. Gen. (ret.) Earl Simms
Vice President of Corporate Relations, Armed Forces Service Corporation
Chairman, National Board of the ROCKS, Inc.

Resources

Vennard Wright
President
Wave Welcome

Trustees Emeriti
Eugene H. Rietzke
Founder of the University
1897-1983
Lillie Lou Rietzke
Co-Founder of the University
1910-2006
John L. Dettra, Jr.
President
Dettra Communications, Inc.
William Hider

383 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

John G. Puente
H. Brian Thompson
Chairman, UTI, Inc.

Advisory Boards
Astronautical Engineering Advisory Board
Steve Hammers
Hammers Co.
Ben Holt
Hammers Co.
Marcel Mabson
Hammers Co.
Rishabh Maharaja
NASA Goddard Space Flight Center
Lisa Sedares
The Aerospace Corporation
Jeff Volosin
Goddard Space Flight Center
Resources

Computer Engineering Advisory Board
Mark Hart
Collins Aerospace
Mark Johnson
Northrup Grumman
Eric Rosales
Ciena
Edward Stoker
Capitol Technology University

384 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Computer Science, Information Technology, Software Engineering and
Data Science Advisory Board
Zane Harvey
Mobius Intelligent Systems and QuantumS3
Mark Horvath
Hammers Co.
Shivaji Sengupta
MAGNUS Management Group LLC
Jean Meslie
TechnoGems, Inc.
Jeffrey Tribiano
IRS
Lax Chepuri
Technogen, Inc.

Counterterrorism and Intelligence & Global Security

Cybersecurity and Cyber Analytics Advisory Board
Kimberly Mentzell
The Department of Commerce
Richard Hansen, PhD
APS Global, LLC
Mike Ridge
Clarity Cyber
Adrian Williams, PMP
U.S. Federal Government

385 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Jeffrey Fuller
Security Risk, Inc.
Bruce Lawlor
U.S. Army Major General (Retired)

Electrical Engineering Advisory Board
Dr. Armen M. Gulian
Chapman University
Anh Ho
Department of Defense
Dan Jablonski
Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Lab
Edward Stoker
Capitol Technology University
George Stauffer
Capitol Technology University

Electronics Engineering Technology Advisory Board
Dr. Armen M. Gulian
Chapman University
Anh Ho
Department of Defense

Resources

Dan Jablonski
Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Lab
Edward Stoker
Capitol Technology University
George Stauffer
Capitol Technology University

Occupational Safety and Health
Tyler Asher, PhD
Performance Contracting Group
Drew Hinton, PhD
Arrow Safety

386 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Paul E. Dillow CSP
Seabreeze Safety

Unmanned and Autonomous Systems Advisory Board
Dr. Richard Baker
Capitol Technology University
Marc Simpson
Textron Systems
Anh Ho
Department of Defense
Sophia Standford
Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust
Kevin Brown
Lockheed Martin

Administration
Executive Council
Resources

President
Bradford L. Sims
BS, Purdue University
MS, University of Florida
PhD, Purdue University
Vice President of Academic Affairs
William Butler
BS, Brenau College
MS, University of Maryland, University College
DSc, Capitol Technology University
Vice President of Student Engagement and University Development
Melinda Bunnell-Rhyne
BA, Drew University
MA, The George Washington University

387 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Assistant Vice President of Learning Assessment and Educational Effectiveness
Natasha Miller
PhD The Pennsylvania State University
MS The Pennsylvania State University
BS CUNY Brooklyn College
Senior Vice President of Enrollment Management and Marketing
Dianne M. O’Neill
BS, University of Maryland, University College
MS, Capitol Technology University
Vice President of Facilities Management and Professional Education
Gary Burke
BS, Auburn University
MBA, Southern Methodist University
Assistant Vice President of Information Technology
Terrell Moore
BS, University of Maryland
Vice President of Finance and Administration
Darryl Campbell
BBA, Bowie State University
Assistant Vice President of Enrollment and Financial Aid
Kim Wittler
BS, University of Maryland, University College

Resources

Administrative Suite
Executive Assistant to the President
Loree Woo
BS, Central Christian College of the Bible

Office of Human Resources

Director, Human Resources & Risk Management
Connie Harringtion
BA, McDaniel College
Associate Director, Academic Contracts, Recruiting & Onboarding
Barika Dobbins
BA, Morgan State University

388 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Office of Admissions
Director of Admissions
Kani Bassey
MS, University of Maryland, Global Campus
BS, University of Maryland, Global Campus
Associate Director of Admissions
Samantha Van Sant
BA, University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Associate Director of Admissions
Carmit Levin
BS, Frostburg State University
Associate Director of Admissions
Iris Lieberman
BA, Psychology Hofstra University
MS School Counseling, Long Island University
Associate Director of Undergraduate Admissions
Lily Jundi
BS, The Pennsylvania State University
Admissions Counselor
TBD

Resources

Assistant Director of Admissions
Malia Pauls
BS, Bowie State University
MA, George Mason University
Administrative Services Assistant
Rodrekia Johnson
Administrative Assistant
Krystal Harding
BS, Bowie State University

Office of Advancement
Director of Development
TBD

389 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Grants Writer
Sirina Sucklaw
MS, University of Maryland Baltimore County BA, University of North Florida

Office of Administrative Services
Manager, Administrative Services
Glory E. Carr
BS, University of the District of Columbia

Business Office
Director of Finance
Michael Minkove
BA, University of Maryland
Assistant Director of Student Accounts
Larissa Knoblett
BA, University of Maryland
Business Office Assistant
Brian Knoblett

Office of the Dean

Resources

Dean of Doctoral Programs
Ian R. McAndrew
BA, University of East London
BS, Open University
Post-Graduate Diploma, University of Hertfordshire
MA, Bedfordshire University
MS, Open University
PhD, University of Hertfordshire
Associate Dean of of Graduate Programs
Richard Baker
BS, Indiana State University
MS, Indiana State University
PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Director of Doctoral Programs
Juanita Butler
BS, National College of Education
MS, National Louis University
PhD, Capitol Technology University
390 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Director of Graduate Programs
Eric Motycka
BA, Burlinton College
MBA, Indiana State University
PhD, Indiana State University
Chair, Engineering
Charles D. Conner
BS, University of Maryland
MS, University of Maryland
PhD, The Catholic University of America
Chair, Computer Science
Bharat Rawal
MS, South Gujart University
MBA, University of Baltimore
DSc, Towson University
Chair, Cyber and Information Security
Director, Center for Cybersecurity Research and Analysis
Kellep Charles
BS, North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University
MS, University of Maryland University College
DSc, Capitol Technology University

Resources

Director of General Education
Jamie Teeple
BA McGill University
MEd University of Toledo
PhD Ohio State University
Administrative Assistant
Kaijah Loynes

Online Learning
Director of Instructional Design and Online Learning
William Drayton III
BS, Hampton University
MS, Walden University
MS, Full Sail University
Associate Director of Instructional Learning
Jessica Hoskins
MA, Bentral Lethodist University
BA, College of the Ozarks
391 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Virtual Learning & Event Specialist
Joseph Lara
AS, Middlesex College

Office of Financial Aid
Director of Financial Aid
Sonia Lomax
BS, Howard University
Associate Director of Financial Aid
Tamika Barnes
BS, Capitol Technology University
MBA, Capitol Technology University
Assistant Director of Financial Aid
Brittany Smith

Information Services and Technology
Director of Information Technology
Terrell Moore
BS, University of Maryland
Associate Network Administrator
Robert Martin

Resources

Database Administrator
Darren Rogers
PC Technician
Dagnechew Dagne

Office of Marketing and Communications
Director of Communications
Olivia M. Bathersfield
BA, The Catholic University of America
MFA, Full Sail University
Assistant Director of Social Media and Admissions Liaison
Bridget Cook
BA, University of Baltimore

392 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Assistant Director of Production and Copy
Erica Decker
BS, University of Maryland Global Campus

Physical Plant Facilities Staff
Adam Pugh
Anthony Akali

John G. and Beverly A. Puente Library
Director of Library Services and Information Literacy
Allen Exner
BS, Capitol Technology University

Office of Registration and Records
Director of Registration and Records
Melanie A. Young
BA, Bowie State University
MBA, Capitol Technology University
Associate Director of Registration and Records
Teressa

Resources

Assistant Director of Registration and Records
Andrea M. Broadnax

Office of Student Life
Dean of Students
Jason Kilmer
BA, Elmira College
MS, Texas A& M University at Commerce
Director of Student Life and Residential Services
Jaycee Kusko
BA, McKendree University
MA, Sam Houston State University
Assistant Director of Residential Services
Alexis Daniels

393 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

BA, Montclair State University
MA, Rider University
Director of Career Development & Employer Relations
Jessica Townsend
MBA - Strayer University
BA, Virginia Union University
Associate Director of Advising and Student Success
Brittany Sanner
BA, Cabrini University
MS, West Chester University
Assistant Director of Competitive Activities and Esports
Jack Harrison
BS, Henderson State University
Assistant Director of Graduate Student Support
Sanoya Amienyi
BS, Arkansas State University
MPA, Arkansas State University
SCCT, Arkansas State University
EdD, Arkansas State University
Undergraduate Advisor
Denise El-Kassis
MS, University of Northern Iowa
BS, University of Northern Iowa

394 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

Resources

Student Life Specialist
TBD

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Nayef Abu-Ageel
Adjunct Professor
BS, Yarmouk University
MS, Jordan University of Science and
Technology
PhD, Michigan State University
Mary Aiken
Professor of Practice
BA, University College Dublin
MS, Dun Laoghaire Institute of Art
PhD, Middlesex University
Mohsin Ali
Adjunct Professor
Marwan Alkhweldi
Adjunct Professor
PhD, West Virgina University
Sumaya Alzuhairy
Adjunct Professor
Atri Amin
Adjunct Professor
Kwame Amoah
Adjunct Professor
BS, KN University of Sc. & Technology
MS, Illinois Institute of Technology
MBA, Nova Southeastern University
PhD, Florida Institute of Technology
Roderick Arthur
Adjunct Professor
BS, Kaplan University
MS, Kaplin University
DSc, Capitol Technology University

395 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

Dawna Attig
Adjunct Professor
BS, Georgia Institute of Technology
MS, St. Michaels College
George U. Azobi
Adjunct Professor
BS, The University of Lagos
PGD, The University of Lagos
MS, The University of Lagos
PhD, The University of Lagos
Richard Baker
Associate Dean of of Graduate Programs
BS, Indiana State University
MS, Indiana State University
PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Hasna Banu
Adjunct Professor
BS, University of Dhaka
MS, University of Dhaka
PhD, University of London
Sarita Barton
Adjunct Professor
PhD Washington University
Charles Bass
Adjunct Professor
BA, University of Massachusetts
JD, Golden Gate University
Joshua Becker
Adjunct Professor
BS, Embry Riddle Aeronautical University
MS, West Virginia University
PhD, Capitol Technology University
Alemayhu Behulu
Adjunct Professor

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Faculty

Kevin Bradley
BA, Morgan State University
MS, Morgan State University
Miranda Brown
Adjunct Professor
Richard Brown
Adjunct Professor
Ronnie Brown
Adjunct Professor
Kristen Broz
Adjunct Professor
Juanita Butler
Faculty
BA, National Louis University
MS, National Louis University
PhD, Capitol Technology University
Martin Cadirola
Adjunct Professor

Charles L. Cayot
Adjunct Professor
BS, New York University
MS, Polytechnic University
Kellep Arnold Charles
Adjunct Professor
BS, North Carolina A&T State University
MS, University of Maryland, University
College
DSc, Capitol Technology University
Karim J. Chichakly
Adjunct Professor
BA, Skidmore College
BE, ME, Dartmouth College
PhD, University of Vermont
Peter H. Christensen
Adjunct Professor
BA, Linfield College
MS, U.S. Naval Postgraduate School
Nick Coleman
Adjunct Professor
AS, Lincoln University
BS, Lincoln University
MS, Keller Graduate School of DeVry
University
PhD, Northcentral University

Frederick Campbell
Adjunct Professor
BS, University of Baltimore
MA, Villanova University

Charles D. Conner
Chair, Engineering
BS, University of Maryland, College Park
MS, University of Maryland, College Park
PhD, The Catholic University of America

Robert Campbell
Adjunct Professor
PhD, Capitol Technology University

Olalekan Daniels
Adjunct Professor
DSc, Capitol Technology University

396 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

BS, Capitol Technology University
MS, Stevens Institute of Technology
Joel Belcher
Adjunct Professor
BS, University of Maryland
MBA, American University

Frank Davis
Adjunct Professor
BS, Pennsylvania State University
MS, Carnegie Mellon University
Darin Dillow
Professor
BS, Eastern Kentucky University
MS, Midway University
Paul Dillow
Adjunct Professor
Max Dolinsky
Adjunct Professor
BS, Ecole Polytechnique
MS, Ecole Polytechnique
PhD, Ecole Polytechnique

Herman Felder
Adjunct Professor
BS, Capitol Technology University
MS, Capitol Technology University
PhD, Capitol Technology University
Navon C. Ferrell
Adjunct Professor
BS, Capitol Technology University
MS, Capitol Technology University
PhD, Capitol Technology University
William H. Flood
Adjunct Professor
BS, MEd, University of Delaware
MA, Regent University
Francis Fofie
Adjunct Professor

Jonathan Earles
Adjunct Professor

William E. Folson
Adjunct Professor
AAS, Community College of the Air Force
BS, University of Maryland, University
College
MS, University of Maryland, University
College
MBA, University of Maryland, University
College
DSc, Capitol Technology University

Randy N. Esser
Adjunct Professor
BS, Wayland Baptist University
MS, Hawaii Pacific University

William D. Frazier
Adjunct Professor
BA, American InterContinental University
MBA, American InterContinental University

Michael R. Fain
Professor
BS, Western Kentucky University
MS, Western Kentucky University
PhD, Howard University

Marc Fruchtbaum
Adjunct Professor
BS, Capitol Technology University
MS, Capitol Technology University

Ashley Doswell
Adjunct Professor
Larry Doyle
Adjunct Professor

397 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Camilo Diaz
Adjunct Professor

Maurice Gatling
Adjunct Professor
EDD, California State University
Bill R. Gedney
Adjunct Professor
BA, University of Redlands
MBA, California State University, San
Bernardino
Bert Gibbons
Adjunct Professor
AS, Delaware Technical Community
College
BS, Wilmington University
MS, Wilmington University
MBA, Wilmington University
Angela Giotto
Adjunct Professor
BS, Ferris State University
MS, University of Michigan
Christopher Gorham
Adjunct Professor
BS, Washington Adventist University
MS, University of Maryland Global College
MS, American Intercontinental University
PhD, Capitol Technology University
Laila Halawi
Adjunct Professor
BS, Beirut University College
MS, Lebanese American University
DBA, Nova Southeastern University

398 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

James Hall
Adjunct Professor
MS, Capitol Technology University
DSc, Capitol Technology University
Richard H. Hansen
Professor of Practice
EET, Capitol Institute of Technology
MS, Johns Hopkins University
PhD, Capitol Technology University
Daphne Hardin
Adjunct Professor
Zane Harvey
Adjunct Professor
BS, West Virginia University
MS, Penn State University
Leif Heaney
Adjunct Professor
BS, Capitol Technology University
MS, Capitol Technology University
Jessica Hazelrigg
Adjunct Professor
MS, Capitol Technology University
BS, University of Maryland College
Ahmed Hemida
Adjunct Professor
Ronald V. Hill, Jr.
Adjunct Professor
BS, Morgan State University
MS, Towson University
PhD, Capitol Technology University
Anh T. Ho
Adjunct Professor
BS, Capitol Technology University
CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Christopher Gastardi
Adjunct Professor
BS, Liberty University
JD, Liberty University
DSc, Capitol Technology University

Enass Hariba
Adjunct Professor

Jamy D. Klein
Adjunct Professor
BS, University of Phoenix
MS, Capitol Technology University

Christopher Hughes
Adjunct Professor
BS, Strayer University
MS, Strayer University
MS, Dakota State University

Vijayanand Kowtha
Adjunct Professor
BS, New York University
MS, New York University
PhD, Rutgers University

Joseph Issa
Adjunct Professor
BS, Georgia Institute of Technology
MS, San Jose State University
PhD, Santa Clara University

Robert Kulesza
Adjunct Professor

Larry Jamison
Adjunct Professor
BS, Southern Illinois University
MS, Webster University
MS, Capitol Technology University
Laura Jones
Adjunct Professor
BS, University of Maryland University
College
MS, National Graduate School of Quality
Management
PhD, Capitol Technology University
Ben Kassel
Adjunct Professor
BS, University of Maine
MS, University of Maryland University
College
Kevin Kemp
Adjunct Professor

Michael Lawrence
Adjunct Professor
BA, University of Kansas
MS, Capitol Technology University
Tom Levec
Adjunct Professor
MS Western Governors University
Priscilla A. Lewis
Adjunct Professor
BA, University of Maryland
MBA, University of Maryland
DM, University of Maryland
Zoe Likoudis
Adjunct Professor
BSc, University of Illinois
MSc, University of Illinois
Alice Low
Adjunct Professor
BA, Bob Jones University
MA, Bob Jones University
Marcel Mabson
Adjunct Faculty

399 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

MS, Capitol Technology University

Attila Magyar
Adjunct Professor
BS, Florida Institute of Technology
MS, University of St. Thomas
Rudolph Magyar
Adjunct Professor
Rishabh Yogendra Maharaja
Adjunct Professor
BS, Capitol Technology University
MS, Capitol Technology University
Mohammad Malkawi
Adjunct Professor
BS, Tashkent Polytechnic Institute
MS, Yarmouk University
PhD, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign
Thomas Maroney
Adjunct Professor
AAS, Halmark Institute of Technology
BS, Embry Riddle Aeronautical University
MS, Embry Riddle Aeronautical University
DSc, Capitol Technology University
Ronald Martin
Professor of Practice
BIS, George Mason University
MS, Frostburg State University
PhD, Capitol Technology University
Jovey Martir
Adjunct Professor
PhD Nova Southeastern University
Ian McAndrew
Dean of Doctoral Programs
400 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

BA, University of East London
BSc, The Open University
MA, University of Bedfordshire
MSc, The Open University
PhD, University of Hertfordshire
Qwontice McDowell
Adjunct Professor
Andrew Mehri
Professor
MS, Capitol Technology University
MBA, Capitol Technology University
Thomas Mellies
Adjunct Professor
Mark McCormick
Adjunct Professor
BS, University of Virginia
MBA, The Lake Forest Graduate School of
Management
MS, DePaul University
PhD, Dakota State University
Jennifer Merritt
Adjunct Professor
Anthony G. Miller
Adjunct Professor
BS, Clarion University of Pennsylvania
MBA, Capitol Technology University
Sondria Miller
Adjunct Professor
BS, North Carolina Central University
MS, Eastern University
PhD, Eastern University
Ashanti Milow
Adjunct Professor
BS, Norfolk State University

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

BS, Capitol Technology University

Megan Miskovish
Adjunct Professor
BS, Lynchburg College
MS, Walden University
David Mollitor
Adjunct Professor
BS, Rochester Institute of Technology
MS, Johns Hopkins University
John Mulroy
Adjunct Professor
Joshua Nelbech
Adjunct Professor
Frank Neugebauer
Adjunct Professor
BS, Bellevue University
MBA, University of Florida
MS, University of Florida
Charles Njelita
Adjunct Professor
BA, Clark Atlanta University
MA, Clark Atlanta University
MS, Clark Atlanta University
PhD, Capitol Technology University
Emmanuel Onwulata
Adjunct Professor
MS, Capitol Technology University
DSc, Capitol Technology University
Daniel Packer
Adjunct Professor
BA, CUNY Hunter College
Wayne Pereanu
Adjunct Professor
401 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

Alexander Perry
Adjunct Professor
BS, Bowie State University
MS, Bowie University
DSc, Capitol Technology University
Alexander Peter
Adjunct Professor
Mary Smikle-Peoples
Professor of Practice
BS, Canisius College
MA, College of Notre Dame of Maryland
Bary Pollack
Adjunct Professor
SB, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
MS, Stanford University
PhD, Stanford University
Jeremy Pretty
Adjunct Professor
BS, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University
MS, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University
PhD, Capitol Technology University
Jeffrey Pullen
Adjunct Professor
MBA, DeVry University
MS, Strayer University
MS, University of Maryland, College Park
Todd Raines
Adjunct Professor
BS, United States Air Force Academy
MS, National University
Jamil Ramsey
Adjunct Professor
BA, Clark Atlanta College
BS, University of Maryland University

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

MS, University of Phoenix

Bharat Rawal
Chair, Computer Science
MS, South Gujart University
MBA, University of Baltimore
DSc, Towson University
Calvin Reed
Adjunct Professor
BA, Michigan State University, Lansing
MS, Capitol Technology University
Stephanie Reich
Adjunct Professor
MS, Johns Hopkins University
Anu Rishi
Adjunct Professor
BS, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar,
India
MS, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar,
India
Nikki Robinson
Adjunct Professor
BS, University of Phoenix
MS, Capitol Technology University
DSc, Capitol Technology University
PhD, Capitol Technology University
Bryant Rogers
Adjunct Professor
BS, Capitol Technology University
Achim Ruopp
Adjunct Professor
MA, University of Washington

402 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

Arthur E. Salmon, III
Adjunct Professor
BS, DeVry University
MS, Keller Graduate School of
Management
DSc, Colorado Technical University
Fatoumata Sankare
Professor of Cybersecurity
Sophia Sanford
Professor of Practice
Robert Scheid
Adjunct Professor
BS, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University
MS, Virginia Polytechnic Institute
Nicholas Schettini
Adjunct Professor
BA, City University of New York
MA, City University of New York
MS, City University of New York
Conrad Schiff
Adjunct Professor
BS, Pennsylvania State University
MS, Carnegie Mellon University
PhD, University of Maryland, College Park
Steve Schmidt
Adjunct Professor
BS, Winona State University
MS, DePaul University
MS, The University of Chicago
Ryan Schrenk
Adjunct Professor
BS, Capitol Technology University
MS, Capitol Technology University

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

College
MS, Bowie State University
DSc, Bowie State University

Shivaji Sengupta
Adjunct Professor

BS, Embry Riddle Aeronautical University
MS, Embry Riddle Aeronautical University

Mohammed Shamsuzzama
Adjunct Professor
BS, Bangladesh University of Engineering &
Technology
MS, Arizona State University

Paul F. Sorensen
Adjunct Professor
BS, Mississippi State University
MS, University of New Orleans
MBA, Tulane University

Alireza Sharifi
Adjunct Professor
PhD Colorado State University

Sophia Stanford
Adjunct Professor
BS, Utah Valley University
MS, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University
PhD, Capitol Technology University

Mark Simpson
Adjunct Professor
BS, University of North Dakota
MS, Pennsylvania State University
PhD, Embry Riddle Aeronautical University
Joshua Sinai
Professor of Practice
BA, State University College of New York at
New Paltz
MA, Columbia University
PhD, Columbia University
Asher Smith
Adjunct Professor
BS, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University
MS, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University
Phillip Smith
Adjunct Professor
BBA, Marshall University
MBA, Marshall University
Laura Smith-Velazquez
Adjunct Professor

403 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

Kevin Stephens
Adjunct Professor
BS, Pennsylvania State University
MS, Drexel University
Edward J. Stoker
Adjunct Professor
BA, University of Pittsburgh
MA, University of Pittsburgh
MBA, University of Pittsburgh
PhD, University of Virginia
Randall Sylvertooth
Adjunct Professor
BS, University of Cincinnati
MS, University of Virginia
MS, George Mason University
DSc, Capitol Technology University
Jamie Teeple
Acting Dean of Academic Affairs
BA, McGill University
MEd, University of Toledo
PhD, Ohio State University

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Mohamed Shehata
Professor of Electrical Engineering

William Thompson
Adjunct Professor

Jason White
Adjunct Professor

Joshua Tromp
Adjunct Professor
BS, Cedarville University
MA, American Military University

Richard Williams
Adjunct Professor
BS, Morehouse College

Gary M. Truslow
Adjunct Professor
AA, Capitol Technology University
BS, Capitol Technology University
MS, John Hopkins University
MS, National Defense University
PhD, Capitol Technology University
Brandy Turner
Adjunct Professor
BS, University of Maryland University
College
MS, Capitol Technology University

Todd Wolfe
Adjunct Professor
AS, Columbia Green Community College
BS, State University of New York
MBA, State University of New York at
Albany
Justin Zickar
Adjunct Professor
BA, Pennsylvania State University
MBA, Capitol Technology University
EdD, Walden University

Resources

Elena Vishnevskaya
Adjunct Professor
BS, Riga Technological University of Civil
Aviation
MS, Riga Technological University of Civil
Aviation
Jeffrey F. Volosin
Adjunct Professor
BS, Florida Institute of Technology
Geoffrey Weidner
Adjunct Professor
Mengsteab Weldegaber
Adjunct Professor
BA, University of Asmara
MS, University of Maryland
PhD, University of Maryland

404 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Calendars

Fall Semester 2022

Undergraduate (UG) and Graduate (GR) Classes
Aug. 24-26
Aug. 27
Aug. 29

Sept. 5
Sept. 6
Sept. 12
Sept. 19
Sept. 26
Sept. 26-Oct. 3
Oct. 7
Oct. 17-21
Oct. 24
Oct. 31
Nov. 21-25
Nov. 23-25
Dec. 9

Dec. 12-16
Dec. 16
Dec. 23-26
Dec. 30-Jan.2

Orientation, registration, and residence hall check-in for new
students
Residence hall check-in for returning students
Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installment due – UG
First 50% tuition installment due – GR
Library opens
Graduation applications due for Fall 2023 and Spring 2023
graduates
Labor Day – University Closed (All classes meet asynchronously)
Labs open
Student Success Center opens
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
Last day for 50% refund
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop without a W
Second tuition installments due
Financial Aid Disbursement Week/Pell Census
Career Conference
Midterm Examinations - UG
Final tuition installment due
Last day to drop course with W or change to audit
Fall reading days (All classes meet asynchronously)
Thanksgiving – University Closed
Classes end - UG
Electronics, physics and chemistry labs close
Student Success Center closes
All library materials are due
Last day to withdraw from all classes
Final examinations - UG
Classes end - GR
Library closes
Residence halls close at 5 p.m.
Christmas - University Closed
New Year - University Closed

405 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Semester-long Classes

Fall Semester 2022 Undergraduate and Graduate Classes
Fall – Term I
Aug. 29

Sept. 5
Sep. 6
Sept. 12
Sept. 19
Sept. 26
Oct. 14
Oct. 21

Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installment due
Graduation applications due for Fall 2023 and Spring 2023
graduates
Labor Day – University Closed (All classes meet asynchronously)
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
Last day for 50% refund
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop or audit course
Final tuition installment due
Last day to withdraw from all classes
Classes end

Oct. 24
Oct. 31
Nov. 7
Nov. 14
Nov. 21
Nov. 21-25
Nov. 23-25
Dec. 9
Dec. 16
Dec. 23-26
Dec. 30-Jan.2

Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installment due
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
Last day for 50% refund
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop or audit course
Final tuition installment due
Fall reading days (All classes meet asynchronously)
Thanksgiving – University Closed
Last day to withdraw from all classes
Classes end
Christmas - University Closed
New Year - University Closed

406 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Fall – Term II

Spring Semester 2023

Undergraduate (UG) and Graduate (GR) Classes
Jan. 3

Jan. 4

Jan. 9
January 13
Jan. 16
Jan. 17
Jan. 20
Jan. 23
Jan. 30
Jan. 30-Feb.6
Feb. 20-24
Feb. 24
Feb. 27
Mar. 6-10
Mar. 10
Mar. 13
April 14

Apr. 17-21
Apr. 21
April 29

University opens
Residence hall check-in for new students
Residence hall check-in for returning students
Orientation for new students
Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installments due – UG
First 50% tuition installment due – GR
Library opens
Graduation applications due for Spring 2023 and Summer 2023
graduates
Labs open
Student Success Center opens
Monday Classes Meet
Martin Luther King Jr. Day – University Closed (All classes meet
asynchronously)
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
Tuesday Classes Meet
Last day for 50% refund
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop course without W grade
Second tuition installments due
Financial Aid Disbursement Week/Pell Census
Midterm Examinations - UG
Career Conference
Final tuition installment due
Spring reading days (All classes meet asynchronously)
Faculty and Staff Appreciation Day - University Closed
Classes resume
Last day to drop course with W or change to audit
Classes end - UG
Last day to withdraw from all classes
Electronics, physics and chemistry labs close
Student Success Center closes
All library materials are due
Final examinations - UG
Classes end - GR
Library closes
Residence halls close at 5 p.m.
Commencement

407 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Semester-long Classes

Spring Semester 2023 Undergraduate and Graduate Classes
Spring – Term I
Jan. 3
Jan. 4

Jan. 9
Jan. 13
Jan. 16
Jan. 17
Jan. 20
Jan. 23
Jan. 30
Feb. 17
Feb. 24

University opens
Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installment due
Graduation applications due for Spring 2023 and Summer 2023
graduates
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
Monday Classes Meet
Martin Luther King Jr. Day – University Closed (All classes meet
asynchronously)
Last day for 50% refund
Tuesday Classes Meet
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop or audit course
Final tuition installment due
Last day to withdraw from all classes
Classes end

Feb. 27
Mar. 6
Mar. 6-10
Mar. 10
Mar. 13
Mar. 20
Mar. 27
April 14
April 21
April 29

Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installment due
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
Spring reading days (All classes meet asynchronously)
Faculty and Staff Appreciation Day - University Closed
Last day for 50% refund
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop or audit a course
Final tuition installment due
Last day to withdraw from all classes
Classes end
Commencement

408 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Spring – Term II

Summer Semester 2023

Undergraduate (UG) and Graduate (GR) Classes
April 29
May 1

May 8
May 15
May 22
May 29
May 30
May 30-June 5
June 19
June 19-20
June 26
July 3-4
July 10
July 24-28
Aug. 11

Aug. 14-18
Aug. 18

Commencement
Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installments due
Graduation applications due for Summer 2023 and Fall 2023
graduates
Library opens
Labs open
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
Last day for 50% refund
Memorial Day – University Closed (All classes meet
asynchronously)
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop course without W grade
Second tuition installments due
Financial Aid Disbursement Week/Pell Census
Juneteenth – University Closed (All classes meet asynchronously)
Midterm Examinations
Final tuition installment due
Independence Day – University Closed (All classes meet
asynchronously)
Last day to drop course with W or change to audit
Summer reading days (All classes meet asynchronously)
Classes end - UG
Electronics, physics and chemistry labs close
All library materials are due
Last day to withdraw from all classes
Final examinations - UG
Classes end – GR
Library closes
Residence halls close at 5 p.m.

Summer Semester 2023 Undergraduate and Graduate Classes
Summer – Term I
April 29
May 1

Commencement
Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installment due

409 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Semester-long Classes

Graduation applications due for Summer 2023 and Fall 2023
graduates
May 8
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
May 15
Last day for 50% refund
May 22
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop or audit course
May 29
Memorial Day – University Closed (All classes meet
asynchronously)
May 30
Final tuition installment due
June 16
Last day to withdraw from all classes
June 19		 Juneteenth – University Closed (All classes meet asynchronously)
June 23

Classes end

June 26
July 3-4		
			
July 5
July 10
July 17
July 24
July 24-28
Aug. 11
Aug. 18

Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installment due
Independence Day – University Closed (All classes meet
asynchronously)
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
Last day for 50% refund
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop or audit course
Final tuition installment due
Summer reading days (All classes meet asynchronously)
Last day to withdraw from all classes
Classes end

Fall Semester 2023

Undergraduate (UG) and Graduate (GR) Classes
Semester-long Classes
Aug. 23-25
Aug. 26
Aug. 28

Orientation, registration, and residence hall check-in for new
students
Residence hall check-in for returning students
Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installment due
Library opens
Graduation applications due for Fall 2023 and Spring 2024

410 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Summer – Term II

Sept. 4		
Sept. 5
Sept. 11
Sept. 18
Sept. 25
Sept. 25-Oct. 2
Oct. 6
Oct. 16-20
Oct. 23
Oct. 30
Nov. 20-24
Nov. 22-24
Dec. 8

Dec. 11-15
Dec. 15
Dec. 22-25		
Dec. 29-Jan.1

graduates
Labor Day – University Closed (All classes meet asynchronously)
Labs open
Student Success Center opens
Last day for 75% refund Last day to add a course
Last day for 50% refund
Last day for 25% refund Last day to drop without a W
Second tuition installments due
Financial Aid Disbursement Week/Pell Census
Career Conference
Midterm Examinations - UG
Final tuition installment due
Last day to drop course with W or change to audit
Fall reading days (All classes meet asynchronously)
Thanksgiving – University Closed
Classes end - UG
Labs close
Student Success Center closes
All library materials are due
Last day to withdraw from all classes
Final examinations - UG
Classes end – GR
Library closes
Christmas - University Closed
New Year - University Closed

Aug. 28

Sept. 4
Sep. 5
Sept. 11
Sept. 18
Sept. 25
Oct. 13
Oct. 20

Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installment due
Graduation applications due for Fall 2023 and Spring 2024
graduates
Labor Day – University Closed (All classes meet asynchronously)
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
Last day for 50% refund
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop or audit course
Final tuition installment due
Last day to withdraw from all classes
Classes end

411 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Fall Semester 2023 Undergraduate and Graduate Classes Fall – Term I

Fall – Term II
Oct. 23
Oct. 30
Nov. 6
Nov. 13
Nov. 20
Nov. 20-24
Nov. 22-24
Dec. 8
Dec. 15
Dec. 23-26
Dec. 29-Jan.1

Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installment due
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
Last day for 50% refund
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop or audit course
Final tuition installment due
Fall reading days (All classes meet asynchronously)
Thanksgiving – University Closed
Last day to withdraw from all classes
Classes end
Christmas - University Closed
New Year - University Closed

Spring Semester 2024

Undergraduate (UG) and Graduate (GR) Classes
Jan. 1
Jan. 2

Jan. 3

Jan. 8
January 12
Jan. 15
Jan. 16
Jan. 19
Jan. 22
Jan. 29

New Year’s – University Closed
University opens
Residence hall check-in for new students
Residence hall check-in for returning students
Orientation for new students
Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installments due
Library opens
Graduation applications due for Spring 2024 and Summer 2024
graduates
Labs open
Student Success Center opens
Monday Classes Meet
Martin Luther King Jr. Day – University Closed (All classes meet
asynchronously)
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
Tuesday Classes Meet
Last day for 50% refund
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop course without W grade
Second tuition installments due

412 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Semester-long Classes

Jan. 29-Feb.5
Feb. 19-23
Feb. 23
Feb. 26
Mar. 8
Mar. 25-29
Mar. 29
April 1
April 12

Apr. 15-19
Apr. 19
April 27

Financial Aid Disbursement Week/Pell Census
Midterm Examinations - UG
Career Conference
Final tuition installment due
Last day to drop course with W or change to audit
Spring reading days (All classes meet asynchronously)
Faculty and Staff Appreciation Day - University Closed
Classes resume
Classes end - UG
Last day to withdraw from all classes
Labs close
Student Success Center closes
All library materials are due
Final examinations - UG
Classes end - GR
Library closes
Residence halls close at 5 p.m.
Commencement

Jan. 1
Jan. 2
Jan. 3

Jan. 8
Jan. 12
Jan. 15
Jan. 16
Jan. 19
Jan. 22
Jan. 29
Feb. 16
Feb. 23

New Year’s – University Closed
University opens
Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installment due
Graduation applications due for Spring 2024 and Summer 2024
graduates
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
Monday Classes Meet
Martin Luther King Jr. Day – University Closed (All classes meet
asynchronously)
Last day for 50% refund
Tuesday Classes Meet
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop or audit course
Final tuition installment due
Last day to withdraw from all classes
Classes end

Spring – Term II
Feb. 26		

Classes begin

413 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Spring Semester 2024 Undergraduate and Graduate Classes
Spring – Term I

Mar. 4
Mar. 11
Mar. 18
Mar. 25-29
Mar. 29
April 1
April 12
April 19
April 27

Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installment due
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
Last day for 50% refund
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop or audit a course
Spring reading days (All classes meet asynchronously
Final tuition installment due
Faculty and Staff Appreciation Day - University Closed
Classes resume
Last day to withdraw from all classes
Classes end
Commencement

Summer Semester 2024

Undergraduate (UG) and Graduate (GR) Classes
April 29

May 6
May 13
May 20
May 27
May 28
May 28-June 3
June 17-21
June 19
June 24
July 3-4
July 8
July 22-26
Aug. 9

Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installments due
Library opens
Graduation applications due for Summer 2024 and Fall 2024
graduates
Labs open
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
Last day for 50% refund
Memorial Day – University Closed (All classes meet
asynchronously)
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop course without W grade
Second tuition installments due
Financial Aid Disbursement Week/Pell Census
Midterm Examinations - UG
Juneteenth – University Closed (All classes meet asynchronously)
Final tuition installment due
Independence Day – University Closed (All classes meet
asynchronously)
Last day to drop course with W or change to audit
Summer reading days (All classes meet asynchronously)
Classes end - UG
Labs close
All library materials are due

414 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Semester-long Classes

Aug. 12-16
Aug. 16

Last day to withdraw from all classes
Final examinations - UG
Classes end – GR
Library closes

Summer Semester 2024 Undergraduate and Graduate Classes
Summer – Term
April 29

May 6
May 13
May 20
May 27
May 28
June 14
June 19
June 21

Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installment due
Graduation applications due for Summer 2024 and Fall 2024
graduates
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
Last day for 50% refund
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop or audit course
Memorial Day – University Closed (All classes meet
asynchronously)
Final tuition installment due
Last day to withdraw from all classes
Juneteenth – University Closed (All classes meet asynchronously)
Classes end

June 24
July 1

July 3-4
July 8
July 15
July 22-26
July 22
Aug. 9
Aug. 16

Classes begin
Last day for 100% refund
First tuition installment due
Last day for 75% refund
Last day to add a course
Independence Day – University Closed (All classes meet
asynchronously)
Last day for 50% refund
Last day for 25% refund
Last day to drop or audit course
Summer reading days (All classes meet asynchronously)
Final tuition installment due
Last day to withdraw from all classes
Classes end

415 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Summer – Term II

Map and Directions
Take the Baltimore/Washington Parkway (Exit 22, north off I-95) to the Beltsville Powder
Mill Road exit. Turn left on Powder Mill Road and take the first right onto Springfield
Road. Follow Springfield Road one mile. Capitol Technology University is on the right.
Directions from Baltimore, MD and points north of Laurel, MD:
Take the Baltimore/Washington Parkway (Exit 7, south off I-695) to the Beltsville Powder
Mill Road exit. Turn right on Powder Mill Road and take the first right onto Springfield
Road. Follow Springfield Road one mile. Capitol Technology University is on the right.
Capitol Technology University
11301 Springfield Road
Laurel, MD 20708
www.captechu.edu

416 | 2022 - 2023 CATALOG

CAPITOL TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY

Resources

Directions from Washington, DC and points south of Laurel, MD: